Neutrality and impartiality.
Anonymity.
Activism.
Accountability and transparency.
Regular inspection of work.
Courage.
Meaningfulness.
Integrity.
Magnanimity
Simplicity
Humility
Gratitude
Perseverance
Unity
Adaptability
Empathy
Vision
Efficiency vs Effectiveness
Discipline
Appropriate use of power

  
  

**Equality**
Equal distancing from all.
Should not be inclined towards any particular political Ideology.
career advancement solely depends upon merit and nothing else.
Should not be emotionally attached with policy of government.
Strongly support the government, especially during times of political crisis.

  
  

**Impartiality**
Equal involvement with all.
non partisanship in conduct of civil servants include non favoritism and non discrimination.
Not denying rights to anyone on basis of caste, community, gender or states.
Equally Important because government is comprised of elected and selected executives.

**Anonymity**
Should merely advise the ministers from behind and stay Protected from Dins and furries of politics,
Avoid occasions of self publicity.
Glorify the institition but not himself.
Feel assured that he is not dragged into public debate or be identified with given policy.
To advance freely and frankly.

  
  

**Commitment**
Wins the trust of people towards establishment.
To the purpose.
Public welfare
comes from compassion for the weaker section.
Can be shown through timely delivery, punctuality and considering work as an opportunity instead of a burden opportunity to serve the society.
If one so judges that public interest demand something other than what the minister asks, one has the right to record his dissent.
Ever readiness to implement the policies of ruling party.

**Activism**
Activism, the civil servant obligation to the state and the spirit of the Constitution should always override his loyalty to the government of the day.
Bold enough, fearless and strongly convicted to pursue the common good
Arrest of Sri Lakshmi in 2G scam.
Rules and laws known
not to be silent to misgivings  
  
**Accountability and Transparency**
Are interwoven.
In absence of accountability, there cannot be No transparency.
Easier for officer to maintain accountability and transparency.
Bureaucracy is rule of law.
Brought unity of command.
90% decisions, standard rule of law, 10% discretion.

Rex is Lex King is law. Lex is Rex.
Law is king.
Observe procedures established by law in all his transactions.
Take responsibility for these decisions when he uses his discretion.
Regular inspection, supervision and unity of command facilitates accountability.
Every civil servant entrusted with part of public power, this power is confined upon him by the state for the sole purpose of discharging state responsibility.
The holder of public offices is trustee of public power.
Power should not be misused as it would amount to betrayal of trust.
Likewise non use of powers in the situation demands is also betrayal of trust.

**Regular Inspection of Work**

**Courage**
Ability to step out of your comfort zone and sail into uncharted voters.
A ship in harbour is safe, but it is not what ships are meant for.
Largest opponent of courage is fear. Fear of the unknown, fear of failure, fear of others.
Successful people acknowledge fears but work to conquer them.

**Meaningfulness**

Meaning of his life
Craving for finding purpose of his life.

**Motivation**
Inspiration s a state of mind in which more we serve more hungry we feel for serving.
Strained Motivation
Civil Servant should always strive to know that who and how many will cry the day he dies.
To avoid mundanity of lige one can add
Contribution → presence is felt when its absent
We often ourselves feel what we do is just a drop in the ocean. But the ocean shall always be less without the missing drop.
While it is well enough to leave footprints in the sand of time it is even more imp to make sure they point in a commendable direction
Charity → Giving your heart mind and talent in ways that enriches the lives of others
Life is an exciting business and even more exciting when lived for others.
It is by spending oneself that one becomes rich.
Responsibility → Taking care of in such a way that one may be blamed if something goes wrong.
Freedom lies in understanding your responsibility –SARTE
Every Right implies a responsibility, every opportunity obligation and every possession a duty.

**Integrity**
State of being where there is no difference b/w your Public and Private Self.
Practice in Action what they Profess.
Right thing at Right time for right Reasons.
Never fail in their Commitments
Never say Yes, when they want to say No.
Success of great men and women should be measured in terms of the means they adopted to achieve it.
Success without honor is like an unseasoned dish, it will satisfy your hunger but it will not taste good.
The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who during the time of moral crisis choose to stay neutral. – Donbe
Real Integrity is doing the right thing, Knowing that nobody’s going to know whether you did or not. – Oprah Winfrey
To know what is right and not doing it worst cowardice. – Confucius

**Magnamity**
Ability to forgive and forget
Control of Anger
Man get and forgets . God gives and forgives
It involves not being revengeful.

**Simplicity**
In speech, in thoughts, in actions.

Simplicity in thoughts – Keeps ones stressfree
Simplicity in Speech – Avoids complexity and Ambiguity
Simplicity in Action – Help connect and brings him close to Public

When asked why don’t you smoke – Newton replied - I do not want a new necessity.

**Humility**
Ability to perceive everyone else as better than oneself.
Vice → Arrogance (Stops Learning / Beyond Criticism)

------ Humility ------

Virtue → Self Confidence
“Great Men and Women are not terrifying, their humility, puts you at ease”
“If I have seen further, it is only standing on shoulder of other giants.” -- Sir Issac Newton.

Although Self-Confidence and Self esteem are healthy traits of personality but there is a point where they cease to be virtues. This point is when one feels more imp than other or above reproach and stops learning.
Humility is the quality of not thinking you are better than others.
Humble people who archive success recognize that they did not get to top all by themselves, and willingly credit others who have helped them along the way.

**Gratitude**
Feeling of Great fullness and wanting to express thanks.
While eating the fruit, think about person who planted the tree.
I wept because I did not have a pair of shoes, until I met person who did not have feet

if you want your children to improve let them overhear the nice things you say about others.
Pygmalion Effect → Expectations have a nasty habit of confirming themselves.
Follows Integrity and Humility
When eating the fruit think of the person who planted the tree.

**Perseverance**
Ability to overcome fatigue and failure.
It is hardwork you do after you are tired of te hardwork you already did. -- Newt Gringch
Bad times have scientific value, they are occassions which a good learner would never like to miss. -- Ralf Waldo Emerson.
People earn - Money, Power int heir good times.
People earn - Experience, Lessons in their bad times
Problem + Opportunity.

**Unity**
The goal of Civil Servant should be striking unity without compromising on diversity.
The civil Servant should be able to unite people with different views for a common purpose known as Nation Building.
It does not mean same-ness but one-ness.
Coming together is beginning, keeping together is Progress, working together is Success.
Spirit of Unity – Seen in KPS Gill.
Greatest challenge of civilization is finding unity in diversity.
It implies oneness and not sameness.
Individuals may live with their unique identity but come together for common purpose.
Whole is more than sum of parts.
Diversity of talents add flavors of life.
The goal of marriage is not to think alike but think together.
You do not get harmony when everyone sings the same note.

**Adaptability**
Ability to change or be changed.
Adversity causes some men to break, and some break records.
Adaptations involve change from within instead of blaming others.
Wherever we look upon Earth, the opportunities take shape within the problem.
May there be enough clouds in your life to make beautiful sunsets.

**Empathy**
Ability to perceive feelings of others
People with empathy find it difficult to express themselves and their emotions.
Stated emotions – 20%
Unstated emotions – 80%
When we listen to someone we do not listen with the intent of understand we listen with the intent of understanding, we listen with the intent to reply.
With empathy people can be won over.
Acceptance – of yourself and others the way they are.
Affection -- Instead of showing affection on oneself shower it on others.
Achievement -- Man must achieve what he is capable of achieving
There is no greater loan than a sympathetic ear.

**Vision**
Ability to think about future with Amazing imagination within the limits of practicality
First determined that things can be done and then we shall find the ways.
Amount of faith that one has on one self s self efficacy
Outcome expectation - Extent to which given outcome is possible
Personal expectation - The extent to which one believes it is possible for himself or herself.
The ability to think about the future with great imagination and also intelligence
Behavior is performed twice once insist the mind and then overtly.
Determined that things can be done and we will find a way. -- Lincoln
Lord grant that I always desire more than I Accomplish. -- Michelangelo
When a man does not know what harbors he is making for, no wind is the right wind -- Seneca

**Efficiency vs Effectiveness**
Doing things right. (Curative)
Doing right things. (Preventive – Plans in Advance)
Effective people spend more time doing important work and less time doing urgent work.

  **Discipline.**
Mental stamina to overcome your empty passions, temptations, faulty habits.
No man is free who is not the master of himself.
The The art of living lies in the knowledge which impulse to obey and which impulse to be made to obey.

  **Appropriate use of Power.**
Power is conferred on the Civil Servants by the state in order to dispose the duties of the State on it’s behalf.
“Minimum use of Force.”