- Levels of mind,    
    - consciousness,
    - subconsciousness,
    - unconsciousness.
    - Contains recent and relevant information required for present use. Current consumption
    - information can be easily recorded from the conscious mind.
    - Information present in consciousness after it serves as per person becomes old and irrelevant. Push to subconsciousness to make space and conscious.
    - From subconscious any information can be recorded.
    - Information which you repressed to unconscious can be recalled even with effort.
    - Unconscious mind receives information from consciousness
    - Concious mind represses
        - functions, mind stresses, threatening anxiety, prolonging guilt, producing thoughts like intense fear, hunger, forbidden desires that secular unconscious to keep conscious free from stress.
        - These unconscious thoughts build up over time and are released in form of dreams.
        - Dreams are highways to unconscious.
            - Two types of sleep
                - NREM
                - REM
            - dreams always disguised what is seen in dreams to manifested content
            - what you feel is the latent content
                
- Freud based his theories and for scientific principles
    - homeostasis,
    - hedonism,
    - conservation of energy,
    - survival of the fittest
        
- states any object Placed with higher energy state develops a tendency to move to move towards the lower energy state, which is more stable.
- Newborn with enormous energy. According to Freud, life is organic. Disturbance in nature. Taking birth creates disturbance in nature. Death as the first desire.
- Stability in that principle of hedonism, says nature, has put mankind and the subordination of two sovereign masters, pleasure and pain.
- Human beings are hedonistic in nature. That is pleasure seeking in nature in all our endeavour.
- Action We try to maximize the pleasure and reduce the pain.
- Mental energy.To bound energy Measure of level of frustration with life, Pleasure seeking behavior. Free energy, Measure of level satisfaction with life.
- Principle of pleasure seeking behavior. Energy can neither be created nor be destroyed, but can be changed from one form to another.
- A person fulfills his desire, is left with less free energy.
- Unfilled desires. Are root of all problems according to Freud, in contrast to Buddha, says the size of the root of all problems.
- Survival of fittest As we grow up, the social challenges give us challenges from time to time.
- Those who meet these challenges require a healthy personality. Burn energy mentioned as libido. Life energy, instinct, fixed action pattern common to all the members belonging to same species. Repetitive compulsions. Eros sex from human reproduction. Thanatos aggression for fighting enemy.
- See, it doesn't matter because any constructive behavior which provides pleasure is sexual in nature.
- Aggression and uniform is destructive behavior which is seen in public.