> - People are born with libido. 
    - This libido is located in id (Viennese language for primitive mind.)
    - It is the primitive mind inherited from our ancestors who lived in forest.
        - This completely forbidden,
        - does not accept any social norms,
        - does not understand any social rules,
        - demands instant gratification.
    - Hence we are biological animals
    - development of personality involves turning this biological animal into a social being.
    - This libido makes us unstable and requires sexual release
> - at the time of birth this libido is released from region of mouth known as Oral.
> - mouth therefore becomes erotic zone.
> - Freud therefore implies that infant derive pleasure through oral orifice.

### Oral Stage ( 0 - 1 yrs )
- after completion of one year infants developed teeth.
- Hence mother develops replacement of breast feeding with spoon feeding. (Weaning) First challenge
- To successfully face the challenge infants need to repress the desire of breastfeeding from conscious to subconscious.
- Most infants able to do this adequately if not completely these.
- Some infants were not able to adequately repress his desire
    - developed condition called oral fixation.
    - In this, all the individuals have grown to be an adult, still a lot of libido still left.
    - These individuals developed oral preference.
- The libido can no longer be released from the process of mouth and the libido can only be delayed but not denied.
- This makes merge the next stage
### Anal stage (2-5 yrs)
- Bowel movements become sexually pleasurable.
- 2 forms
    - Anal aggressive forcibly lowering their bowels
    - Anal regressive holding their bowls before release.
    - All children universally lie between Aggressive and anal reggressive extremes
    - Anal aggressive become extroverts
        - express their feelings
        - are forthcoming
        - sociable
    - Anal regressive becomes introverts
        - keep feelings to themselves.
        - Psychosomatic deviation can also develop due to these preferences. (Physical and mental causes)
        - Anal aggressive may develop chronic colitis.
        - Anal reggressive may develop chronic Constipation

### Beyond 2-5yrs
- Parents put their children in toilet training.
- Involves bladder and bowel control. Second challenge of life.
- This requires control.
- To help the child. Require this control. Some of the videos transferred to a new region called Ego.
- Ego holds back the Animal id.
- Delays the gratification that id demands.
- Cannot deny id, but delay.
- Responsible for reasonable behavior fulfills demand for aid in social acceptable manner.
- Understanding of ones own libido is ego. Continuous conflict between ego and aid.
- Strength of ego depends upon the kind of thoroughly training or parent style.

>After toilet training; affected by the [[1.6.a.ii. Style of Parenting]], libido again makes a shift to mark release of libido through other means and constitutes a new stage.
### Phallic stage (6-11 yrs)
- The libido shifts to region of genitals 
- Formation of sexual identity. 
- Freud mentions before the age of 6 as hermaphrodites 
- After this age, gender typically the gender typical behavior develops 
- Change in behavior develop children develop 
- Curiosity towards opposite sex and this develops into sexual desire. 
- This age requires sexual education.
- Oedipus conflict and Electro conflict 
	- In case Oedipus conflict is seen in the case of a boy's child. 
		- Sexual desires for the mother from id, castration Anxiety driven by ego. 
		- Resolution takes place by identification with the same sex parent. 
		- Transfer of energy from it to a new chamber viz SuperEgo.
		- Super ego is custodian of values taken from the father. 
		- Inability to develop Oedipus conflict can lead to homosexuality.
	- Electra conflict in case of girl child 
		- discovers anatomical deficiency, 
		- perception of incomplete body, 
		- Sense of biological inferiority starts holding mother as responsible. 
		- Love for father and jealousy for mother.
		- Penis envy from the id, fear of social reality from the ego, resulting in a social rejection. 
		- This conflict resolution takes place by identification with same sex parent, 
		- acceptance of values similar to mother, so as to get a man like her father in future.
		- Inability to develop Electra conflict may lead to homosexuality. 
	- Oedipus conflict stronger than Electra conflict. 
		- Therefore resolution stronger in males than females. 
		- Hence males will have a stronger morals and values than females. 
		- Social obligation more important than family commitment in boys well in case of girls family measurements are more important
- At the end of the phallic stage 1 is left with 3 sections 
	- id - desires - unconscious  - Ravan 
	- ego, reason, conscious ram, 
	- superego, moral agent, subconscious God.
- Constant conflict between the three. 
	- Ego most stressed if ego fails to control. 
	- Super ego punishes ego by forming guilt, anxiety and remorse. 
	- Most of our energy wasted dealing with anxiety of our ego.
	- Anxieties of ego 
		- **Reality Anxiety** 
			- happens when a punishment is likely to follow or an id driven behavior.
		- **Neurotic anxiety**
			- a consistent threat felt by ego that one should not reveal the animal in public.
			- Will shy from social contact, 
		- **Moral Anxiety** 
			- feeling of disproportionate guilt, having committed an id driven behavior.