- Eric Eckerson - Another student of Sigmund Freud
- According to Ericsson, development of personality starts at birth and continues across life. 
- It spreads across 8 stages, each stage categorized by a crisis that needs to be resolved moderately 
- Incomplete or no resolution may lead to unbalanced personality.
	- Trust v/s mistrust (0-1 yrs)
	- Autonomy v/s doubt (1-3 yrs)
		- children develop mentally and physically very fast at this stage 
		- acquire a number of skills like language, locomotion at this stage, 
		- children demand more and more autonomy to execute their own behavior when parents refuse to grant autonomy for failed autonomous behavior and pass, they develop a sense of doubt to sense of.
		- In doing their job, some doubt is beneficial for its for its avoid take taking unnecessary risk 
	- Initiative v/s guilt (3-5yrs)
		- In this age, children learn to plan for future event which have not yet occurred. That is, they take initiative. When parents encourage initiative taken by children, they develop initiative taking.facilities in children
		- When they are scolded for their initiatives. Which are damaging. they feel guilty, this adds guilt.
	- Industry v/s Inferiority. (5 -12yrs)
		- In this age, children compete with each other for medals, trophies and prizes. 
		- When they emerge as winners, they get industrious in their personality. 
		- When they lose they add sense of inferiority. 
	- Identity v/s role confusion. (13-19yrs)
		- Very challenging age. 
		- Neither children nor grown up. 
		- Transitional age. 
		- Age of peer relationship.
	- Intimacy v/ss isolation. (20-40yrs)
	- Generativity v/s stagnation. (40-60yrs)
		- Golden age of life.
		- People get utmost wealth and respect from society.
		- Feel like giving back to society called generativity, 
		- Feeling of meaningfulness in existence. 
		- Inability to give back leads to stagnation.
	- Ego integrity v/s despair(60+ yrs)
		- old are just time for retrospection that is looking back in time and find how I Lived my life 
		- formation of self integrated ego, 
		- feeling of despair -Mend past
		- 80% good, 20% bad.