- Karen Horney - student of Sigmund Freud
- Parents considered first institutions of socialization 
- Consist of father and mother. 
- Father perceived that permissive agent, 
- mother perceived by child supportive guardian who provides a child with supporting blocks. 
- Over a period of time, the parent and child developed many among themselves a very strong emotional bond called attachment.
- The range of attachment between parent and child, 
	- secure and unsecure 
- sense of insecurity present and is fundamental in all human beings and just the basic anxiety it is of two kinds 
	- Separation anxiety,(fear of separation from parent)
	- Stranger anxiety( anxiety in front of strangers)
- Basic anxiety which was originally tied to parents later on gets generalized with all on all the relationship which one forms with peers
- How one deals with Basic anxiety determines ones personality.

- 3 strategies to deal with the basic anxiety 
	- Moving Toward 
		- In this person agrees to every demand in the relationship irrespective of his or her willingness because of fear of losing the relationship people who are moving toward relationship develop a compliant type of personality 
	- Moving Away 
		- In these people are so scared of losing.
		- Relationship that they avoid making any relationship, 
		- refuse to accept any invitation, not share mobile numbers, do not have social media accounts, 
		- lead to development of detached type personality 
	- Moving Against 
		- involves keeping the other person dependent on oneself so that ** *** cannot Quit the relationship. 
		- People who frequent this type of personality develop a dominant type of personality. 
	- All three compliant, detach, and dominant type personalities are unhealthy people with unhealthy.
	- People with unhealthy personalities interchanges the strategies depending upon situation.