#### Authoritarian parenting
- Very harsh and punitive method of training
- Full of punishments but no love.
- Punishments were not following instruction, but no love for following the instructions. 
- Such children grow up with the belief that world does not pardon mistakes and therefore we cannot afford to commit mistakes. 
- They are always conscious anxious regarding their mistakes, 
- They develop perfectionist tendencies can never be.
- Highly obsessed with the rules and conventions.
- Do not accept changes.
- Develop conservative attitudes.
- In extreme cases can develop mental disorder called neurosis.
- Always fear threat in future when there are none 

#### Permissive parenting
- Cold and negligent style of parenting. 
- Parents seem to ignore behavior of their children and permit everything 
- Do not correct their children's misbehavior 
	- Due to business of their work life
	- Un-readiness to become parents. 
- Such children slip into world of imagination and unable to distinguish between reality and imagination.
- In extreme cases can develop psychosis. 
- This also characterized by delusion and hallucination. 
- Delusion is false belief accepted as true. 
- Two types of delusion. 
	- Delusion of grandeur involves excessive sense of self importance, 
	- Delusion of persecution,
- Sensory experience in absence of stimuli, hallucinations.

#### Democratic parenting
- Most effective style of parenting, 
- Blend of love and punishment for desirable and undesirable behaviors respectively.
- Children develop very strong ego and clear understanding of what is real.