<hr>

- The whole sky is filled with tiny shining objects called ==celestial bodies==
	- Some are very big and hot, made-up of gases, have their own heat and light visible stars.
- ==The moon== appears at different times, in different shapes and different positions.
	- Full moon Purnima
	- New moon Amavasya. - The best day to watch the sky provided it is a clear night.
>[!question] Why are the Moon and other celestial bodies not visible during the night time?
    - Due to the presence of the bright sun, the moon and the other celestial bodies are not visible in the sky in the night.   
- The stars are twinkling, but we do not feel the heat or light because they are very far.
- Various patterns formed by different groups of stars is called constellations.
    - Ursa major, Big Bear, Saptarishi
- Pole Star also called North Star as it indicates the north direction.
- Used to determine directions of the night can be located using suppression Jupiter cycle and Uranus of rings around them.
- These are bells of small debris can be seen from all these in the powerful telescopes.
- Some celestial bodies do not have their own heat alive, let by the light of the stars. They are called planets.
- Greek word planetai -Wanderers
- Earth is a planet
- heat and light from sun nearest star.
- Sol In Roman mythology is the sun God.
>[!fact]
>Solar means related to sun.

>[!faq] What do you call those who study the celestial bodies and the movements?
> **Astronomers**

> [!quote]
> The moon shines due to reflected sunlight.
> -Aryabhatta , famous Indian astronomer
- ### The solar system.
	- Sun, 8 planets, their satellite and some other celestial bodies known as Asteroids, meteoroids form the solar system.
    - #### The sun
        - at the center of the solar system,
        - extremely hot gases
        - provides pulling force that binds the solar system.
        - Ultimate source of heat and light for solar system
        - about 150,000,000 kilometers away from Earth
    - #### Planets
        - In order. Off distance from the sun,
            - Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune.
        - Move around the sun in a fixed path called orbits.
        - ##### Mercury
            - nearest to Sun,
            - takes only 88 days to complete one round along its orbit.
        - ##### Venus
            - Considered Earth's twin, because shape and size very much similar to that of Earth.
        - ##### Pluto
            - until recently a planet now considered a dwarf planet.
        - ##### Earth
            - third nearest planet to the sun.
            - 5th largest planet in size,
            - slightly flattened at the poles shaped is described as geoid
            - conditions favorable to support life
            - neither too hot nor too cold as water and air.
            - Life supporting gases like oxygen
            - appears blue because two third surface is covered with water, thus called Blue Planet.
    - #### The moon
        - Earth’s satellite diameter 1/4 of Earth,
        - Appears big because it is nearer to our planet,
        - moves around the Earth in 27 days.
            - Takes exactly the same time to complete one spin.
            - Thus only one side of the moon is visible to us.
        - Conditions not favorable for life.
        - Has mountain planes and depressions on its surface.
    - #### Asteroid
        - fall between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter.
        - Apart from stars and planets, numerous tiny bodies which also move around the sun. Scientists are for viewpoint that asteroids are remnants of a planet which exploded many years back.
    - #### Meteroids
        - small pieces of rocks which move around the sun, sometimes come near Earth and tend to a drop on it due to friction with air, get heated up and burn.
    - #### Milky Way Galaxy
        - In Ancient India, it was imagined to be a river of light flowing in the sky as it was named Akash Ganga.
        - A Galaxy is a large, huge system of millions of stars and clouds, of dust and gases.
        - These are millions of galaxies that make the universe.