
- Our globe is a true model miniature form of the earth.
- Not fixed - Can be rotated similar to Porter's weed.
- Countries, continents and oceans shown in their correct size.
- Needle fixed through the globe in a tilted manner called the axis.
    
    - Points through which Needle pass are the two poles, North Pole and the South Pole.
        
- The real Earth has no needle. It moves around on an imaginary axis.
    
    - From West to east.
        
- Another imaginary line divides it into two equal parts, called the equator.
    
    - North hemisphere
        
    - Southern Hemisphere,
        
    - all parallel circles from equator up to the poles are called parallels of latitude.
        
    - As we move away from equator, size of panels of latitudes decreases.
        
    - By measuring the angle of pole star from a place, one can know the latitude of that place.
        
    - Important parallels of latitudes.
        
        - Equator 0°
            
        - North Pole 90° N,
            
        - South Pole 90° S.
            
        - Tropic of Cancer 23 1/2° N.
            
        - Tropic of Capricorn 23 1/2° S.
            
        - Arctic Circle 66 ½° N.
            
        - Antarctic Circle 66 ½° S.
            
    - Heat zones of the Earth.
        
        - Torrid Zone
            
            - Midday sun is exactly overhead once a year on all latitudes in between Tropics of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn.
                
            - Receives maximum heat
                
        - Temperate Zone
            
            - Midday sun never overhead on any latitude beyond Tropic of Cancer in N and Tropic of Capricorn in S.
                
            - Angle of sun goes on decreasing towards the poles.
                
            - Moderate temperatures.
                
        - Frigid Zone
            
            - Areas between Arctic Circle and North Pole in Northern Hemisphere, an Antarctic Circle and South Pole in Southern Hemisphere.
                
            - Very cold rays are always slanting and provide less heat.
                
- What are longitudes?
    
    - How far is or how far West a place is from a given line of reference from the North Pole to South Pole.
        
    - Here Line of reference are the meridians of longitudes and distance between them are measured in degrees of longitude.
        
    - These are semicircles, and the distance between them decreases steadily poleward until it becomes zero at the poles.
        
    - All meridians of equal, Length.
        
    - Count began from Meridian, which passed through Greenwich.
        
        - The Meridian called prime Meridian
            
        - 0° longitude.
            
        - 180° eastward as well as 180° westward.
            
    - Longitude and time.
        
        - Movement of moon and planets as means of measuring time.
            
        - Sun rises and sets regularly every day.
            
            - Local time reckoned by Shadowcast by Sun.
                
            - Longest at sunrise and sunset. Shortest at noon.
                
            - When prime Meridian has sun at highest point in sky, all places along this Meridian will have midday or noon.
                
        - As Earth rotates from West to east.
            
            - Places east of Greenwich ahead of GMT.
                
            - Places West of Greenwich behind GMT
                
        - 1° every 4 minutes at any places.
            
        - Watch can be adjusted to read 12 O’ clock when the sun is the highest point in the sky.
            
        - Why do we have a Standard Time?
            
            - local time of places on different meridians are bound to differ difference of about 1hr 45 minutes in local time of Dwarka and Dibrugarh.
                
            - An Indian longitude of 82 half degree E is treated at Standard Meridian, known as Indian Standard of Time.
                
            - India is five hours 30 minutes ahead of GMT.
                
            - Some countries have adapted more than one time zone due to the great longitudinal extent.