**Motions of the Earth**

- All those two types of motions, namely rotation and revolution.
    
- Rotation it is the movement of Earth on its axis,
    
- Revolution, movement of Earth around the sun, and effects path or orbit.
    
- Axis of Earth, which is an imaginary line, makes an angle of 66 half degree with its orbital plane.
    
- Circle that divides the day and night on globe is called circle of illumination.
    
- Due to spherical shape of earth, only half of it gets light from the sun at a time.
    
- Earth takes about 24 hours to complete 1 rotation around its axis.
    
- Period of rotation is known as Earth Day.
    
- Aryabhatta stated that the Earth is round and irritates on its own axis.
    
- Spherical astronomy plane trigonometry.
    
- Westward motion of stars due to Earth's rotation about its own axis.
    
- What would happen if Earth stopped rotating on it’s axis
    
    - one side could always experience day and bring continuous warmth,
        
    - other side remain in darkness and be freezing cold.
        
- Revolution takes 365 one fourth days to revolve around the sun.
    
- Every fourth year, a leap year.
    
- Earth going around the sun in elliptical orbit.
    
- How does the inclination of earth behave during Revolution of Earth?
    
    - Throughout orbit Earth inclined in the same direction.
        
- A year usually divides into summer, winter, autumn and spring.
    
- 21st June - Summer solstice
    
    - Sun falls directly on Tropic of Cancer, North Pole inclined towards sun.
        
    - Places beyond Arctic Circle experience continues daylight for six months
        
    - Northern hemisphere - Days are longer than nights
        
    - Southern Hemisphere - Reverse condition.
        
- 22nd December. – Winter Solstice
    
    - Tropic of Capricorn receives direct sunlight.
        
    - South Pole turns towards the sun
        
    - Summer in the southern hemisphere with longer days and shorter nights.
        
    - Reverse in Northern Hemisphere
        
- 21st March and 23rd September - Equinox
    
- Direct trays of the sun fall on the equator, while Earth equal day and night.
    
- Thus, day and night due to rotation changes in season due to revolution.