- Surface of the Earth is a complex zone on which three main components of the Earth mean overlap and interact.
    

- Solid portion lithosphere.
    
- Gaseous layers, atmosphere, water covered hydrosphere Biosphere is the narrow zone where we find land, water and air together which contains all forms of life
    
- lithosphere
    
    - comprises the rocks of the earth's crust and thin layer of the soil that contain nutrient elements which sustain.
        
    - Organisms 2 Main divisions Large land masses, continents, huge water bodies, oceans, basins, all oceans of the world connected to one another.
        
    - Level of sea water remains same everywhere.
        
    - Evaluation of land measured from the level of the sea, which is taken as 0.
        
    - Highest mountain peak Mount Everest 8848 meter Greatest depth Mariana Trench 11,222 M Pacific Ocean.
        
    - Continents 7 major continents, Asia as the largest.
        
    - Covers 1/3 of total land area.
        
    - Asia separated from Europe by the Ural Mountains.
        
    - Combine landmass of Europe and Asia, Eurasia.
        
    - Europe.Lies to West of Asia.
        
    - Arctic Circle passes through it.
        
    - Abound by water body on three sides.
        
    - Africa equator runs almost through the middle of the continent only continent through which Tropic of Cancer Equatorial and Tropic of Capricorn passed through Sahara Desert, world's largest hot desert.
        
    - Nile world's longest river.
        
    - Second largest continent.
        
    - Through which continents all three major latitudes pass through Tropic of Cancer equation and Tropic of Capricorn.
        
    - North America third largest continent linked to South America through narrow strip of land called Isthmus of Panama between 2 water bodies.
        
    - South America mostly in southern hemisphere.
        
    - Andes world's longest mountain range runs through its length.
        
    - Amazon - World's largest river which is the world's largest and longest rivers.
        
    - Australia Island continents surrounded on all sides by ocean and seas.
        
    - Antarctica - South Pole almost at the center of the of this region, permanently covered with thick ice sheets,
        
    - No permanent human settlement.
        
    - Indian research stations Maitri and Dakshin Gangotri.
        
- Hydrosphere
    
    - consisting of water, running water in oceans and rivers and lakes.
        
    - Ice in glaciers, underground water, water vapor and atmosphere.
        
    - More than 97% water in oceans too salty for human use.
        
    - Large portion of rest in the form of ice sheets and glaciers or underground.
        
    - Very small percentage has fresh water available for human use.
        
    - Thus water shortage despite being a blue planet.
        
    - Why is only a small percent of water available to human use despite Earth being called a blue planet?
        
    - Oceans, ocean water are always moving 3 chief movements.
        
    - Waves, tides, and Ocean currents 5 Major Oceans, Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean.In the decreasing order of their size,
        
    - Pacific Ocean is the largest, spread over 1/3 of Earth. Mariana Trench, deepest part of Earth, almost circular in shape.
        
    - Atlantic Ocean S shaped coastline of Atlantic Ocean highly indented North and South America to West and Europe and Africa to east natural harbors and coast busiest oceans.
        
    - Indian Ocean Only ocean named after a country shape almost triangular.Bound by Asia to the north, Africa in the Western Australia to the east.
        
    - Southern Ocean encircles the continents of Antarctica and extends northward to 60° S latitude. Architect. Ocean surrounded.by the north pole
        
- Atmosphere
    
    - provides us with air that we breathe.
        
    - Protects us from harmful effects of sun rays.
        
    - Extends to a height of 1600 kilometer.
        
    - Divided into 5 layers based on composition, temperature and other properties.
        
    - Troposphere, stratosphere, Mesosphere, thermosphere, exosphere.
        
    - Composed mainly of nitrogen and oxygen, makes 99% of clean dry air.
        
    - Other gases like CO2, argon compose of less than one percent.
        
    - CO2 helps absorb heat radiated by Earth.
        
    - Thereby keeping the planet warm, also essential for plant growth.
        
    - Density of atmosphere decreases as we go up.
        
    - Climbers experience problems due to this.
        
    - Temperature also increases as we grow up moving air, wind atmosphere also exerts pressure which varies from place to place.
        
- Biosphere
    
    - Narrow zone of contact between land, water and air.
        
    - It is in this zone that life that is unique to this planet exists.
        
    - Several species of Organism that exist.
        
    - Plant Kingdom and Animal Kingdom, 3 domains of Earth interact with one another.
        
    - Need to limit the use of resources of Earth to maintain the balance of nature between the domains of lithosphere, the atmosphere and hetrosphere.