

- Earth has infinite variety of landforms, some part rugged and some flat.
    
- A result of two processes.
    
- Internal process,
    
- upliftment and sinking of Earth's surface at several places.
    
- External process,
    
- continuous wearing down and rebuilding of land surface.
    
- Wearing away of Earth surface is called erosion.
    
- Surface rebuilt by the process of deposition.
    
- There are two process carried out by the running water, ice and wind.
    
- Can group different landforms.Based on elevation and slope as
    
- mountains,
    
- plateaus and
    
- plains.
    
- Mountains.
    
    - Any natural elevation of the Earth's surface may have a small summit.Broad base.
        
    - Some mountains even higher than the clouds.
        
    - Some mountains have permanent frozen rivers of ice called glaciers.
        
    - Mountains may be arranged in line known as range may consist of series of parallel ranges extending over 100 kilometers.
        
    - Himalayas, Alps, Andes in Asia, Europe and South America.
        
    - Examples of ranges Mountains vary in their size and their shape.
        
    - Three types of mountains fold mountains, block mountains, volcanic mountains.
        
        - Fold Mountains
            
            - Example of fold mountain Himalayan and Alps.
                
            - Aravali range, one of the oldest fold mountain system range, has considered considerably.
                
            - Range has considerably worn down due to process of erosion.
                
            - Appalachians in North America
                
            - Ural in Russia have rounded features in low elevation.
                
        - Block mountains
            
            - created when large areas are broken and displaced vertically.
                
            - Uplifted block as Horst lowered block as grabbing Rhine Valley.
                
            - Vosges mountain in Europe.
                
            - Volcanic mountains with same volcanic activity Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa,
                
            - Mount Fujiyama in Japan.
                
            - They are storehouses of water and very useful.
                
            - Many rivers have their source in the glaciers used for irrigation and generation of hydroelectricity.
                
            - River valleys and terraces ideal for cultivation of crops.
                
            - Rich variety of flora and fauna ideal excite for tourists. Paragliding, hand gliding, river rafting and skiing are popular in mountains.
                
        - Plateau It is an elevated flat land, flat top table land standing above the surrounding area may be young or old.
            
            - Deccan Plateau one of the oldest plateaus, East African plateau, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, Western plateau, Australia.Tibetan Plateau, highest plateau of the world.
                
            - Useful Rich in mineral deposits, African plateau, gold and diamond mining.
                
            - Huge reserves of iron, coal and manganese found in Chhota, Nagpur plateau.
                
            - Several waterfalls, riverfalls from great heights.
                
            - Honduru Falls, Chotanagpur Plateau river, Subaranarekha Jog Falls, Karnataka Lava plateaus rich in black soil, fertile and good for cultivation.
                
            - Many plotters have scenic spots.
                
            - Great attraction to tourists.
            - - Large stretches of flat land, not more than 200 meter.
    
- Some planes are extremely level, other planes may be slightly rolling and undulating.
    
- Most planes formed by rivers in its tributaries.
    
- Rivers flow down slopes of mountain and erode them.
    
- Carry eroded material deposit their load consisting of stone, sand and silt along their courses and Indian valleys.
    
- This leads to formation of plains. Generally planes are fertile.
    
- Construction of transport network is easy.Very thickly populated regions in the world, some of the largest plains Asia and North America in India, Ganga and Brahmaputra, Yangshi, China plain useful for human habitation.
    
- Indo-Gangetic plains most densely populated regions of the country.
    
- Landforms and the people plain easier to inhabit than mountains.
    
- Ways we use land and water should not be wasteful, not use important gifts of nature in a careless manner.
    
- Duty to leave the earth a better place for future generations as well.