- Vast geographical expanse
    
    - N lofty mountains, Arabian Sea in the West. Bay Bengalis, Indian Ocean in South.
        
    - Area 3.28 square kilometer.
        
    - NS extent 3200 kilometer Kashmir to Kanyakumari
        
    - EW extent 2900 kilometers Arunachal to Kachchh
        
- Diversity of landform,
    
    - Great Indian Desert
        
    - Northern plains
        
    - Uneven plateau surface
        
    - coasts and islands.
        
- Great variety in vegetation, climate and wildlife, language and culture.
    
- Unity in tradition that bind us as one nation.
    
- Localational setting.
    
    - Northern Hemisphere
        
    - 8° 4’ N to 37° 6’ N latitude
        
    - 68° 7’ E to 92° 25’ E longitudes.
        
    - India's neighbour
        
        - 7 countries that share land boundaries with India
            
            - Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Bangladesh,
                
        - Sri Lanka Island neighbors separated by Palk strait.
            
    - Political and Administrative division 28 States and eight duties
        
    - Delhi National Capital
        
- Physical Divisions
    
    - Himalayas,
        
        - Great Himalayas or Himadri
            
        - Middle Himalayas or Himachal
            
        - Southern most range - Shiwalik
            
    - North Indian Plain.
        
        - South of Himalayas
            
        - generally level and flat.
            
        - Alluvial deposit laid down by the rivers
            
        - Indus, Ganga and Brahmaputra and tributaries.
            
- Western part Great Indian desert, Dry, hot and sandy stretch of land.
    
    - Little vegetation
        
- Peninsular plateau
    
    - South of northern plains.
        
    - Highly uneven relief region with numerous hill ranges and valleys.
        
    - Aravalli Hills border it on North West Side.
        
    - Vindhyas and Satpura important Rangers,
        
    - Narmada and Tapi flow through these ranges.
        
    - Western Ghats Sahayadris border on West
        
    - Eastern Ghat as the eastern boundary.
        
        - Rich in minerals like coal and iron ore.
            
    - West of western ghats
        
        - coastal plains,
            
        - very narrow.
            
    - Eastern Coastal plains
        
        - much broader
            
        - Mahanadi, Godavari, Krishna and Kaveri draining to Bay of Bengal.
            
        - Fertile deltas at the.Mouth
            
        - Sundarban delta formed where Ganga and Brahmaputra flow into Bay of Bengal.
            
- The group of islands
    
    - Lakshadweep Islands
        
        - Arabian Sea,
            
        - coral islands of the coast of Kerala,
            
    - Andaman and Nicobar
        
        - southeast of the Bay of Bengal.