
- Weather is about day to day changes in atmosphere
- Changes in temperature rainfall and sunshine etc
    - hot or cold
    - Sunny or cloudy
    - windy or calm
- The major seasons recognised in India
    - Cold weather season Winter
        - December to February
            
    - Hot weather season Summer
        - March to May
            
    - Sw Monsoon Season Rainy
        - June to September
            
    - Season of retreating Monsoon Autumn
        
        - October and November
            
- Cold Weather Season or Winter
    
    - Sun rays do not fall directly in the regional.
        
    - As a result temperatures are quite low in northern India
        
- Hot weather Season or Summer
    
    - Sun rays fall directly on the region
        
    - Temp are very high
        
    - hot and dry winds called loo blowing during the day
        
- Sw Monsoon or Rainy season
    
    - onset and advance of monsoon
        
    - winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengalis towards the landform
        
    - carry moisture with themselves
        
    - strike mountain barriers and rainfall occurs
        
- Season of retreating Monsoon or Autumn
    
    - Winds moved back from mainland to Bay of Bengal.
        
    - Southern part of India, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh receive rainfall in this season.
        
- Climate of India broadly been described as monsoon type (calculated over many years.)
    
    - Climate of a place is affected by its location, attitude, distance from the sea and relief.
        
    - Thus, regional difference in climate of India.
        
        - Jaisalmer, Bikaner very hot
            
        - drasss and Kargil freezing cold.
            
        - Coastal plains like Mumbai and Kolkata, Moderate weather, very humid.
            
        - Mawsynram in Meghalaya world's highest rainfall.
            
    

Natural vegetation,

- Bushes and shrubs
    
    - which grow on their own without interference or help from human beings are called natural vegetation.
        
- Different types of natural vegetation are dependent on different climatic conditions.
    
- Amount of rainfall is very important,
    
- why are forests necessary.?
    
    - Plants release oxygen that we breathe.
        
    - Roots of plants bind the soil, Control soil erosion,
        
    - provide us with a timber for furniture, fuel board, photo, medicinal plants and herbs larceny.Glue etc.
        
    - Natural habitat of wildlife.
        
    

Wildlife.

- A huge variety of reptiles, amphibians, mammals, birds, insects and worms dwell in the forest.
    
- Tiger national animal,
    
- Gir forest, Home of Asiatic Lion
    
- Elephants and one horned rhino in Assam.
    
- Elephants also found in Kerala and Karnataka.
    
- Camels and wildasses found in Great Indian Desert and run of Kutch.
    
- Wild goats, snow leopards, bears in Himalayan region,
    
- Peacock National bird
    
- Bird sanctuaries provide birth protection from hunters.
    
- Several 100 species of snakes.Found in India
    
- cutting on forest and hunting
    
    - several species of wildlife of India are declining rapidly.
        
    - Many species already extinct.
        
    - To protect many natural parks, transfusion by sewer reserves have been set up.
        
    - Project tiger and project Elephant can contribute in protecting wildlife
        
- refuse to buy things made from parts of.The bodies of animals such as their bones, horns, fur, skins and feathers
    
- create awareness of conserving the habitat of animal Kingdom.