- Environment is our basic life support system
	Provides us with air we breathe, the the water we drink, the food we eat. In the land where we live.
- Human beings make cars, mills, factories and manufacture containers that pollute the earth.
- Place people thinks the nature that surround the living Organism is called environment.
- Combination of natural and human made phenomena, 
	- ##### Natural 
		- biotech and abiotic condition. 
		- Land, air, water and living things. 
	- ##### Human made 
		- building, parks, bridges, Rd. monuments, industries etcetera.
	- ##### Human environment 
		- revealed the activities, creation and interaction among human beings.
- #### Natural environment,
	- ##### Lithosphere, 
		- solid crust or hardtop layer of the Earth
		- made-up of rocks and minerals
		- covered by a thin layer of soil.
		- Irregular surfaces with various landforms
			- such as mountain, plateau, plain, valleys, etcetera.
		- Domain that provide land for forests, grazing, agriculture and human settlement.
	- ##### Hydrosphere, 
		- various sources of water and different types of water bodies like rivers, lakes, seas and oceans
		- essential for all living organisms.
	- ##### Atmosphere 
		- thin layer of air that surrounds the Earth. 
		- Gravitational force of Earth holds the atmosphere around it 
		- protects from harmful rays and scorching heat of sun. 
		- Plants and animal together make biosphere.
	- ##### Ecosystem 
		- all plants and animals depend on their immediate surroundings,
		- often independent, interdependent on each other. 
		- Relationship between living Organism and the surrounding form and ecosystem 
- #### Human environment. 
		- Early humans adopted themselves to their natural surroundings 
		- simple life and fulfill their requirement.
		- Human beings interact with their environment and modify it according to their needs.
		- A perfect balance necessary between natural and human environment.