- Earth, a dynamic planet 
	 - constantly going through changes inside and outside.
- ### Interior of the Earth.
	- Several concentric layers one inside other. 
	- ##### Crust - Uppermost Surface 
		- Thinnest about 35 kilometers continental 
		- 5 kilometers of ocean flow 
		- Mineral constituents silica and aluminum.Si Al. 
		- Oceanic crust, silica and magnesium. Si Ma.
	- ##### Mantle 
		- Just beneath the crust up to depth of 2900 kilometers. 
	- ##### Core 
		- With radius of about 3500 kilometer. 
		- Mainly made-up of nickel and iron.
		- High temperature and pressure.
- ### Rocks and minerals 
	- Any natural mass of mineral matter that makes up Earth's crust is called a rock.
	- Can be of different color, size, and texture.
	- Three types of rocks 
		- ##### Igneous rocks
			- When the molten magma cools, it becomes solid. 
			- These rocks are called igneous rocks. 
			- Also called primary rocks. 
			- Two types, 
				- ###### Intrusive 
					- forms inside Earth's surface, 
					- made-up of rock Basalt. 
					- Slow cooldown, Form large.Grain. 
					- Granite.
				- ###### Extrusive 
					- magma coming out of interior.
					- forms crust,
					- comes out to surface rapid cooldown and becomes solid 
					- basalt.
		- ##### Sedimentary rocks. 
			- Rocks rolled down crack and hit each other and are broken down into small fragments.
			- These small fragments are called sediments. 
			- transported by wind, water, etc, compressed and hardened to form layers of rock 
			- called sedimentary rocks, 
			- Sandstone.
		- ##### Metamorphic rocks 
			- Igneous and sedimentary rocks can change into metamorphic rocks under great heat and pressure. 
	- #### Rock Cycle 
		- One type of rocks change into another.Under certain conditions, in a cyclic manner is called, rock cycle  
	- #### Minerals
		- rocks made-up of different minerals,
		- naturally occurring substances which have certain physical properties and definite chemical composition.