- Lithosphere broken into number of plates known as lithospheric plates. 
Plates move slowly due to the movement of molten magma inside the earth. 
Moves in circular manner
Causes changes on the surface of the earth. 
Forces acting in the interior of the earth are called Endogenic forces. 
Forces on the surface of the earth are called Exogenic forces.

Endogenic forces sometimes produce certain movements and at the other time produce slow movements. 
Earthquake and volcano can cause mass destruction over the surface of the Earth.
A volcano vent in the earth crust through which molten material erupts suddenly.
When lithosphere plates move, the surface vibrates.
Vibrations can travel all around the earth. 
These vibrations are called earthquakes. 
Place in the earth where movement starts is called focus.
Loose on surface above the focus is called epicenter.
Some important earthquake prediction methods adopted locally by people include
studying animal behavior, 
fish get agitated 
snake come out to surface water 
and water in well rises or falls suddenly. 
Ants coming out of thin Burrows.
- Major landforms
	landscapes continuously worn away by two processes - weathering and erosion.
	Weathering
		breaking up of rocks on the surface of the earth
	Erosion
		wearing away of landscape by different agents like water, wind and ice
- Work of a river, 
	running water erodes the landscape. 
	When river tumbles at the steep angle or over hard rocks or down the steep valley side, it forms a waterfall. 
	River enters plains, it twists and turns, forms large bends known as meanders. 
	Oxbow lake 
	due to the erosion.Meander loop cuts off from the river as meander comes closer and closer. 
	At times river floods overflows to banks, deposit soils and other material along the banks. Flood plains 
	raised banks levies 
as river approaches sea. 
	Speed of flowing water further reduces. 
	River breaks up into a number of streams - called distributries. 
	collection of sediments from all the mouth from deltas, 
work of sea waves, 
	erosion and deposition of sea waves give rise to coastal landform.
	Sea wave strikes at the rock
	cracks develop overtime, become larger and wider.
	Thus hollow like caves are formed in the rocks? 
	These are called sea caves. 
	As cavities become bigger, only roof of The Cave remains.
	Thus forming sea arches. 
	These wall like structures are called stacks. 
	Steepy rock coast rising almost vertically above the sea water is called the sea Cliff. 
Work of ice. 
	Glaciers are river of ice. 
		Erode the landscape by bulldozing soil and sand and stones to export solid rock.
	Deposits from glaciers like sand rocks, big and small and sealed from glacial morains. 
Work of wind. 
	An active agent of erosion and deposition in the desert is wind. 
	Rocks in the shape of mushroom wind blows travel transport sand from one place to another as it stops blowing it.Falls and gets deposited in low hill like structures called sand dune.
	When grain of sand light can travel large distance deposition from Loess.