- Environment is our basic life support system. 
- It provides us the air we breathe. The water we drink, the food we eat and the land where we live.
- Human beings make cars, mills, factories, and manufacture containers that pollute the earth.
- Place people, things in nature that surround the living Organism is called environment.
- Combination of natural and human made phenomenon,
- Natural
    - Biotic and Abiotic condition.
    - Land, air, water and living things.
- Human made
    - building, parks, bridges, Rd. monuments, industries etcetera.
- Human environment
    - reveals the activities, creations, and interaction among human beings.

**Natural environment,**
- Lithosphere,
    - solid crust or hardtop layer of the earth made-up of rocks and minerals covered by a thin layer of soil.
    - Irregular surface with various landforms
        - such as mountain plateaus, plains, valleys, et cetera.
    - Domain that provide land for forest, grazing, agriculture, and human settlement.
        
- Hydrosphere
    - Various sources of water and different types of water bodies like river, lakes, seas and oceans.
    - Essential for all living organisms.
        
- Atmosphere
    - A thin layer of air that surrounds the Earth.
    - Gravitational force of Earth holds the atmosphere around it,
    - protects from harmful rays and scorching heat of sun.
    - Plants and animal Kingdom together make up biosphere
        
- Ecosystem.
    - All plants and animals depend on their immediate surrounding,
    - often interdependent on each other.
    - Relationship between living Organism and their surrounding form and ecosystem.
        
- Human environment
    - Early human adopted themselves to the natural surroundings, simple life and fulfilled their requirements.
    - Human beings interact with the environment and modify it according to their needs.
    - A perfect balance necessary between natural and human environment.