- This is the process of changing the attitudes of other along a pre intended direction. 
- Process consists of three elements source, message and receiver. 
- Source is the initiator. 
- Begins persuasion with encoding code, devices, ideas in the form of language subsequent to Ideas take the shape of a message.
- Message Message with simple wording half.
Means of channel written audio, Visual reaches. The receiver can be adversely affected by noise or barrier, which may be of two types. Physical barrier, Any physical disturbance in the channel. Poor network misprint.Semantic barrier occurs when the message is not understood by the receiver as it was intended by the source.Condition to be present within the source and message to make the persuasion more easy. Source credibility greater. The credibility of the source more effective is the preservation. It depends upon his or her popularity, level of expertise, and amount of respect he commands amongst this audience.Example Amitabh Bachchan for polio non intentionality. When the audience perceives that the source has nothing to gain from the propagation of the message, they begin to trust the message. Example Amitabh Bachchan for tourists.
Physically attractive or sex appeal? Physically attractive sorts with sex appeal can hold the attention of the audience for longer period of time during which a message may be delivered. Example.MGM Motors advertisement to capture attention of Hwy. audience.Perceived similarity When the audience perceives source are similar to themselves, they feel connected to the source.Message.One sided message those messages and with potential benefits are described by potential losers. Such are kept hidden. Effective while addressing favorable predisposed people with lower self esteem. Audience afraid to make their own decisions, wanting to be led by a leader.Example revealing a new type of GMC with marginal risk 2 sided message. Both potential benefits and losses are described. However weightage of benefits is kept heavier than the losses. Effective while addressing critical audience people with higher self esteem.Think before making a decision Example bongos immense asthana sabse acha fear appeal. When the message produces mild fear in the origins, it is easily accepted. Example fear against minorities, corruption, reinforcement. Any pleasant stimulus would stress in this.Is progress verbal reinforcement and form of praise for answering in class? Two kinds, positive, present and found reinforcement is actually present, that is in something tangible is given.Negative involves withdrawal of pain in which no pleasant stimulus or reinforcement is given.Furry pillars kind of narrative reinforcement Punishment. Any painful unpleasant stimuli which weaken the behavior is progress. Two kinds. Positive Any painful unpleasant stimuli which is actually present in the system. Negative No painful similar, yet the person feels punished.Involves withdrawal of the pressure consistency principle. Foot in the door methods. Human beings of a tendency of maintaining consistency of thought and actions. This method involves making a small request to the audience which they are likely to agree and then repeating the request again and again. Audience will agree because.Last time reciprocity principle, door in the face method. Being a member of society, we engage in social exchanges which involve give and take. This method involves making a huge demand from the audience which they are likely to disagree and then make the real smaller demand which they agree to.Morality principle Foot in the mouth method. People generally respond to moral appeal as everyone wants to be seen morally upright. Scarcity principle Objects which are projected to be present and scarce amount are perceived as valuable.Effective and Environment Protection.