- Our likings and dislikes. 
- Positive attitude towards our likings.
- "Learned an enduring tendency to react either favorably or unfavorably to an object, person, place, or an issue."
- Do not guarantee a behaviour, but instead drive towards the possibility of a behaviour. 
- Characteristics of attitude. 
	- They are learned and acquired, 
		- not born with attitudes. 
		- Acquired by social interactions. 
		- Something which is learned, can also be unlearned and relearned. 
		- Not permanent. Subject to change. 
	- They are enduring which is long lasted, 
		- lasts very long. 
		- Loaded with strong motivations.
	- They may show multiplexity, which means we may hold more than one kind of attitude towards some object.
	- They are vector entities, which means they have magnitude as well as directions, positive or negative. 
		- They are matter of degrees, 
		- can be held strongly or weakly 
		- quantifiable on various scales. 
	- The strength of attitude may change in presence of a group 
		- If it becomes stronger than before, it is known as. polarisation effect (risley shift), 
		- If it becomes weaker than before it is known as moderation effect (come towards the average.)
	- Attitudes may be explicit as well as implicit. 
		- Explicitly held attitudes are those which are present in our sub-consciousness about which we are aware 
		- Everything which we know we like or dislike. 
	- Much of our attitude presented our own conscience called the implicit attitudes. 
	- We have them without knowing of their presence or the influence of behavior. (Halo effect)