{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs18\lang9 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA\par
BUDGET 2021-2022\par
SPEECH OF NIRMALA SITHARAMAN\par
MINISTER OF FINANCE\par
February 1, 2021\par
\b CONTENTS\par
PART-A\par
\b0 Page No.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Introduction 1\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Health and Wellbeing 5\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Physical and Financial Capital and Infrastructure 7\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Inclusive Development for Aspirational India 19\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Reinvigorating Human Capital 22\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Innovation and R&D 23\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Minimum Government, Maximum Governance 24\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Fiscal Position 25\par
\b PART B\par
Direct Tax Proposals 28\par
\b0\f1\'b7\f0  Relief to Senior Citizens\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Reduction in Time for Income Tax Proceedings\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Setting up the Dispute Resolution Committee\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Faceless ITAT\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Relaxation to NRI\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Exemption from Audit\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Relief for Dividend\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Attracting foreign investment into infrastructure sector\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Affordable Housing/Rental Housing\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Tax incentives to IFSC\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Pre-filling of Returns\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Relief to Small Trusts\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Labour Welfare\par
\b Indirect Tax Proposals 33\par
\b0\f1\'b7\f0  GST\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Custom Duty Rationalization\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Electronic and Mobile Phone Industry\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Iron and Steel\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Textile\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Chemicals \par
(ii)\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Gold and Silver\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Renewable Energy\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Capital Equipment\par
\f1\'b7\f0  MSME Products\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Agriculture Products\par
\b Annexures\par
\b0 Annexures to Part A of the Speech 37\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Health and Wellbeing \f2\endash  Expenditure\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Flagship Projects: Roads and Highways\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Highlights of Disinvestment/Strategic Disinvestment Policy\par
\f1\'b7\f0  MSP Purchases of Agricultural Commodities\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Initiatives on Education as part of NEP\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Statement of Extra Budgetary Resources\par
(Govt. fully serviced bonds, NSSF loan and other resources)\par
\b Annexures to Part B of the Speech 45\par
\b0 Direct Tax\par
Indirect Tax\par
\par
Budget 2021-2022 \par
Speech of Nirmala Sitharaman\par
Minister of Finance\par
February 1, 2021\par
\par
Hon\f2\rquote\f0 ble Speaker,\par
I present the Budget for the year 2021-2022.\par
Introduction\par
1. Honourable Speaker, the preparation of this Budget was undertaken in circumstances like never before. We knew of calamities that have affected a country or a region within a country, but what we have endured with COVID-19 through 2020 is sui generis.\par
2. When I presented the Budget 2020-21, we could not have imagined that the global economy, already in throes of a slowdown, would be pushed into an unprecedented contraction.\par
3. We could not have also imagined then that our people as those in other countries would have to endure the loss of near and dear ones and suffer hardships brought about due to a health crisis.\par
4. The risk of not having a lockdown was far too high. Within 48 hours of declaring a three-week-long complete lockdown, the Prime Minister announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, valued at `2.76 lakh crores \f2\endash  this provided, free food grain to 800 million people, free cooking\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 gas for 80 million families for months, and cash directly to over 400 million\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 farmers, women, elderly, the poor and the needy.\par
5. Even as a large section of citizens stayed home, milk, vegetable, and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 fruit-suppliers, health and sanitary workers, truck drivers, railways and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 public transport workers, bank employees, electricity workers, our\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 annadatas, police, firemen, and the armed forces, all had to go about their\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 work as normal, but with the additional anxiety of the virus hanging over\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 them. We recognise this, and I think I speak on behalf of everybody in this\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 august House, when I express my heartfelt gratitude to these men and\par
women, for how they were able to carry out their work and duty, to provide\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 for the nation\rquote s basics, over those crucial months.\par
6. Speaker Sir, for public good, Honourable Members of Parliament\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and Members of Legislative Assemblies too offered their salaries.\par
7. In May 2020, the government announced the AtmaNirbhar Bharat\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 package (ANB 1.0). To sustain the recovery, further into the year, we also\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 rolled out two more AtmaNirbhar Bharat packages (ANB 2.0 and ANB 3.0).\par
Total financial impact of all AtmaNirbhar Bharat packages including\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 measures taken by RBI was estimated to about `27.1 lakh crores which\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 amounts to more than 13% of GDP.\par
8. As a government, we kept a watch on the situation and were\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 proactive in our responses. The government, led by the Prime Minister,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 stretched its resources to deliver for most vulnerable sections of our society\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9\endash  the poorest of the poor, the Dalits, Tribals, the elderly, the migrant\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 workers, and our children. The PMGKY, the three ANB packages, and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 announcements made later were like five mini-budgets in themselves.\par
9. The AtmaNirbhar Packages accelerated our pace of structural\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 reforms. Redefinition of MSMEs, Commercialisation of the Mineral Sector,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Agriculture and Labour Reforms, Privatisation of Public Sector Undertakings,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 One Nation One Ration Card, and Production Linked Incentive Schemes are\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 some of the notable reforms carried out during this period. Faceless\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Income Tax Assessment, DBT and Financial Inclusion are the others.\par
10. Today, India has two vaccines available, and has begun medically\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 safeguarding not only her own citizens against COVID-19, but also those of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 100 or more countries. It is added comfort to know that two or more\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 vaccines are also expected soon.\par
11. Honourable Prime Minister launched the vaccination drive by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 crediting and thanking our scientists. We are ever grateful for the strength\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and rigour of their efforts.\par
12. Having said that, we are all reminded time and again that our fight\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 against COVID-19 continues into 2021.\par
13. Now, just as it had happened after the two World Wars, there are\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 signs that the political, economic, and strategic relations in the post COVID\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 world are changing. This moment in history is the dawn of a new era \endash  one\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 in which India is well-poised to truly be the land of promise and hope.\par
''Faith is the bird that feels the light and sings when the dawn is still dark''.\par
-Rabindranath Tagore\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 (Fireflies \endash  A Collection of Aphorisms)\par
14. In this spirit, I can\rquote t help but recall the joy that we, as a cricket-loving\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 nation, felt after Team India\rquote s recent spectacular success in Australia. It has\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 reminded us of all the qualities that we as a people, particularly our youth,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 epitomise of having abundant promise and the unsuppressed thirst to\par
perform and succeed.\par
15. Today, data shows that India now has one of the lowest death rate\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 of 112 per million population and one of the lowest active cases of about\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 130 per million. This has laid the foundation to the revival we are seeing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 now in the economy.\par
16. This Budget will be the first of this new decade. This Budget will also\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be a digital Budget and that has happened with all your support.\par
17. So far, only three times has a Budget followed a contraction in the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 economy. All such contractions were as a result of situations typical to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 India. This time, the contraction in our economy is due to a global\par
pandemic, just like in several other countries.\par
18. Having said that, I want to confidently state that our Government is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 fully prepared to support and facilitate the economy\rquote s reset. This Budget\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 provides every opportunity for our economy to raise and capture the pace\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 that it needs for sustainable growth.\par
19. 2021 is the year of many important milestones for our history. I\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 mention a few of these: It is the 75th year of Independence; 60 years of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Goa\rquote s accession to India; 50 years of the 1971 India-Pakistan War; it will be the year of the 8th Census of Independent India; it will also be India\rquote s turn\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 at the BRICS Presidency; the year for our Chandrayaan-3 Mission; and the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Haridwar Maha Kumbh.\par
20. Honourable Speaker, before I commence Part A of the Budget, I\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 want to take a moment to acknowledge how isolating and distancing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 seemed like insurmountable challenges for a country like ours that has\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 people coming together in times of crises. It hurt us in many ways. I bow my\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 head in respect to every citizen, for the endurance shown in facing what\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 was an undeniably a tough year for all our physical and mental well-being.\par
\par
\b PART A\par
\b0 21. In Part A, I wish to lay a vision for AtmaNirbhar Bharat.\par
22. AtmaNirbharta is not a new idea. Ancient India was largely selfreliant, and equally, a business\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 epicentre of the world.\par
23. AtmaNirbhar Bharat is an expression of 130 crores Indians who have\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 full confidence in their capabilities and skills.\par
24. We are already part of International groupings such as the G20 and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 BRICS. The Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 International Solar alliance are realities today due to India\rquote s efforts.\par
25. The proposals in Part A will further strengthen the sankalp of Nation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 First, Doubling Farmer\rquote s Income, Strong Infrastructure, Healthy India, Good\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Governance, Opportunities for Youth, Education for All, Women\par
Empowerment, and Inclusive Development, among others.\par
26. Additionally, also on the path to fast-implementation are the 13\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 promises we had made in the Budget of 2015-16 which were to materialise\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 during the Amrut Mahotsav of 2022, on the 75th year of our \f0\lang2057 I\f2\lang9 ndependence.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 They too resonate with this vision of AtmaNirbharta.\par
27. The Budget proposals for 2021-2022 rest on 6 pillars.\par
i. Health and Wellbeing\par
ii. Physical & Financial Capital, and Infrastructure\par
iii. Inclusive Development for Aspirational India\par
iv. Reinvigorating Human Capital\par
v. Innovation and R&D\par
vi. Minimum Government and Maximum Governance\par
\b 1. Health and Wellbeing\b0\par
28. Even at the outset, I would like to say that the investment on Health\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Infrastructure in this Budget has increased substantially. Progressively, as\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 institutions absorb more, we shall commit more.\par
29. Taking a holistic approach to Health, we focus on strengthening\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 three areas: Preventive, Curative, and Wellbeing.\par
\b Health Systems\b0\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\tx8662 30. A new centrally sponsored scheme, PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Yojana, will be launched with an outlay of about ` 64,180 crores over 6\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 years. This will develop capacities of primary, secondary, and tertiary care\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Health Systems, strengthen existing national institutions, and create new\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 institutions, to cater to detection and cure of new and emerging diseases.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 This will be in addition to the National Health Mission. The main\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 interventions under the scheme are:\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 a. Support for 17,788 rural and 11,024 urban Health and Wellness\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Centers\par
b. Setting up integrated public health labs in all districts and 3382 block\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 public health units in 11 states;\par
c. Establishing critical care hospital blocks in 602 districts and 12\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 central institutions;\par
d. Strengthening of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), its\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 5 regional branches and 20 metropolitan health surveillance units;\par
e. Expansion of the Integrated Health Information Portal to all\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 States/UTs to connect all public health labs;\par
f. Operationalisation of 17 new Public Health Units and strengthening\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 of 33 existing Public Health Units at Points of Entry, that is at 32\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Airports, 11 Seaports and 7 land crossings;\par
g. Setting up of 15 Health Emergency Operation Centers and 2 mobile\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 hospitals; and\par
h. Setting up of a national institution for One Health, a Regional\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Research Platform for WHO South East Asia Region, 9 Bio-Safety\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Level III laboratories and 4 regional National Institutes for Virology.\par
Nutrition\par
31. To strengthen nutritional content, delivery, outreach, and outcome,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 we will merge the Supplementary Nutrition Programme and the Poshan\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Abhiyan and launch the Mission Poshan 2.0. We shall adopt an intensified\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 strategy to improve nutritional outcomes across 112 Aspirational Districts.\par
\b Universal Coverage of Water Supply\par
\b0 32. The World Health Organisation has repeatedly stressed the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 importance of clean water, sanitation, and clean environment, as a pre\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 requisite to achieving universal health.\par
33. The Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban), will be launched. It aims at universal\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 water supply in all 4,378 Urban Local Bodies with 2.86 crores household tap\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 connections, as well as liquid waste management in 500 AMRUT cities. It\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 will be implemented over 5 years, with an outlay of `2,87,000 crores.\par
\b Swachch Bharat, Swasth Bharat\par
\b0 34. For further swachhta of urban India, we intend to focus on complete\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 faecal sludge management and waste water treatment, source segregation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 of garbage, reduction in single-use plastic, reduction in air pollution by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 effectively managing waste from construction-and-demolition activities and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 bio-remediation of all legacy dump sites. The Urban Swachh Bharat Mission\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 2.0 will be implemented with a total financial allocation of `1,41,678 crores\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 over a period of 5 years from 2021-2026.\par
\b Clean Air\b0\par
35. To tackle the burgeoning problem of air pollution, I propose to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 provide an amount of `2,217 crores for 42 urban centres with a million-plus\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 population in this budget. \par
\b\f0\lang2057 S\f2\lang9 crapping Policy\par
\b0 36. We are separately announcing a voluntary vehicle scrapping policy,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 to phase out old and unfit vehicles. This will help in encouraging fuelefficient, environment friendly vehicles, thereby reducing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 vehicular\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 pollution and oil import bill. Vehicles would undergo fitness tests in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 automated fitness centres after 20 years in case of personal vehicles, and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 after 15 years in case of commercial vehicles. Details of the scheme will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 separately shared by the Ministry.\par
\b Vaccines\b0\par
37. The Pneumococcal Vaccine, a Made in India product, is presently\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 limited to only 5 states will be rolled out across the country. This will avert\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 more than 50,000 child deaths annually.\par
38. I have provided `35,000 crores for Covid-19 vaccine in BE 2021-22. I\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 am committed to provide further funds if required.\par
39. The Budget outlay for Health and Wellbeing is `2,23,846 crores in BE\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 2021-22 as against this year\rquote s BE of `94,452 crores an increase of 137\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 percentage. The details of the same are at Annexure I of the Speech.\par
\par
\b 2. Physical and Financial Capital and Infrastructure\par
AtmaNirbhar Bharat \endash  Production Linked Incentive scheme (PLI)\par
\b0 40. For a USD 5 trillion economy, our manufacturing sector has to grow\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 in double digits on a sustained basis. Our manufacturing companies need to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 become an integral part of global supply chains, possess core competence\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and cutting-edge technology. To achieve all of the above, PLI schemes to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 create manufacturing global champions for an AtmaNirbhar Bharat have\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 been announced for 13 sectors. For this, the government has committed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 nearly `1.97 lakh crores, over 5 years starting FY 2021-22. This initiative will\par
help bring scale and size in key sectors, create and nurture global\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 champions and provide jobs to our youth.\par
\b Textiles\b0\par
41. To enable the textile industry to become globally competitive,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 attract large investments and boost employment generation, a scheme of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Mega Investment Textiles Parks (MITRA) will be launched in addition to the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 PLI scheme. This will create world class infrastructure with plug and play\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 facilities to enable create global champions in exports. 7 Textile Parks will\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be established over 3 years.\par
\b Infrastructure\b0\par
42. The National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) which I announced in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 December 2019 is the first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise ever\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 undertaken by Government of India. The NIP was launched with 6835\par
projects; the project pipeline has now expanded to 7,400 projects. Around\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 217 projects worth `1.10 lakh crores under some key infrastructure\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Ministries have been completed.\par
43. The NIP is a specific target which this government is committed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 achieving over the coming years. It will require a major increase in funding\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 both from the government and the financial sector. In this Budget, I\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 propose to take concrete steps to do this, in three ways:\par
44. Firstly, by creating the institutional structures; secondly, by a big\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 thrust on monetizing assets, and thirdly by enhancing the share of capital\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 expenditure in central and state budgets.\par
\b Infrastructure financing - Development Financial Institution (DFI)\b0\par
45. Infrastructure needs long term debt financing. A professionally\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 managed Development Financial Institution is necessary to act as a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 provider, enabler and catalyst for infrastructure financing. Accordingly, I\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 shall introduce a Bill to set up a DFI. I have provided a sum of `20,000 crores\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 to capitalise this institution. The ambition is to have a lending portfolio of at\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 least `5 lakh crores for this DFI in three years time.\par
46. Debt Financing of InVITs and REITs by Foreign Portfolio Investors will\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be enabled by making suitable amendments in the relevant legislations. This\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 will further ease access of finance to InVITS and REITs thus augmenting\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 funds for infrastructure and real estate sectors.\par
\b Asset Monetisation\b0\par
47. Monetizing operating public infrastructure assets is a very important\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 financing option for new infrastructure construction. A \ldblquote National\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Monetization Pipeline\rdblquote  of potential brownfield infrastructure assets will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 launched. An Asset Monetization dashboard will also be created for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 tracking the progress and to provide visibility to investors. Some important\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 measures in the direction of monetisation are:\par
a. National Highways Authority of India and PGCIL each have\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 sponsored one InvIT that will attract\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 international and domestic\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 institutional investors. Five operational roads with an estimated\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 enterprise value of ` 5,000 crores are being transferred to the NHAI\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 InvIT. Similarily, transmission assets of a value of `7,000 crores will\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be transferred to the PGCIL InvIT.\par
b. Railways will monetise Dedicated Freight Corridor assets for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 operations and maintenance, after commissioning.\par
c. The next lot of Airports will be monetised for operations and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 management concession.\par
d. Other core infrastructure assets that will be rolled out under the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Asset Monetization Programme are: (i) NHAI Operational Toll Roads\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 (ii) Transmission Assets of PGCIL (iii) Oil and Gas Pipelines of GAIL,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 IOCL and HPCL (iv) AAI Airports in Tier II and III cities, (v) Other\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Railway Infrastructure Assets (vi) Warehousing Assets of CPSEs such\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 as Central Warehousing Corporation and NAFED among others and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 (vii) Sports Stadiums.\par
\b Sharp Increase in Capital Budget\b0\par
48. In the BE 2020-21, we had provided `4.12 lakh crores for Capital\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Expenditure. It was our effort that in spite of resource crunch we should\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 spend more on capital and we are likely to end the year at around `4.39\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 lakh crores which I have provided in the RE 2020-21. For 2021-22, I propose\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 a sharp increase in capital expenditure and thus have provided `5.54 lakh\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 crores which is 34.5% more than the BE of 2020-21. Of this, I have kept a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 sum of more than `44,000 crores in the Budget head of the Department of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Economic Affairs to be provided for projects/programmes/departments\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 that show good progress on Capital Expenditure and are in need of further\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 funds. Over and above this expenditure, we would also be providing more\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 than `2 lakh crores to States and Autonomous Bodies for their Capital\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Expenditure.\par
49. We will also work out specific mechanisms to nudge States to spend\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 more of their budget on creation of infrastructure.\par
\b Roads and Highways Infrastructure\b0\par
50. More than 13,000 km length of roads, at a cost of `3.3 lakh crores,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 has already been awarded under the `5.35 lakh crores Bharatmala\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Pariyojana project of which 3,800 kms have been constructed. By March\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 2022, we would be awarding another 8,500 kms and complete an additional\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 11,000 kms of national highway corridors.\par
51. To further augment road infrastructure, more economic corridors\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 are also being planned. Some are:\par
a. 3,500 km of National Highway works in the state of Tamil Nadu at an\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 investment of `1.03 lakh crores. These include Madurai-Kollam\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 corridor, Chittoor-Thatchur corridor. Construction will start next\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 year.\par
b. 1,100 km of National Highway works in the State of Kerala at an\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 investment of `65,000 crores including 600 km section of MumbaiKanyakumari corridor in Kerala.\par
c. 675 km of highway works in the state of West Bengal at a cost of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 `25,000 crores including upgradation of existing road-Kolkata \endash\lang2057  \lang9 Siliguri.\par
d. National Highway works of around `19,000 crores are currently in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 progress in the State of Assam. Further works of more than `34,000 11\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 crores covering more than 1300 kms of National Highways will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 undertaken in the State in the coming three years.\par
52. Some of the flagship corridors and other important projects that\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 would see considerable activity in 2021-22 are in Annexure-II.\par
53. I am also providing an enhanced outlay of `1,18,101 lakh crores for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, of which `1,08,230 crores is for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 capital, the highest ever.\par
\b Railway Infrastructure\b0\par
54. Indian Railways have prepared a National Rail Plan for India \endash  2030.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 The Plan is to create a \lquote future ready\rquote  Railway system by 2030.\par
55. Bringing down the logistic costs for our industry is at the core of our\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 strategy to enable \lquote Make in India\rquote . It is expected that Western Dedicated\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Freight Corridor (DFC) and Eastern DFC will be commissioned by June 2022.\par
The following additional initiatives are proposed:\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9\par
a. The Sonnagar \endash  Gomoh Section (263.7 km) of Eastern DFC will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 taken up in PPP mode in 2021-22. Gomoh-Dankuni section of 274.3\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 km will also be taken up in short succession.\par
b. We will undertake future dedicated freight corridor projects namely\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 East Coast corridor from Kharagpur to Vijayawada, East-West\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Corridor from Bhusaval to Kharagpur to Dankuni and North-South\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 corridor from Itarsi to Vijayawada. Detailed Project Reports will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 undertaken in the first phase.\par
c. Broad Gauge Route Kilometers (RKM) electrified is expected to reach\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 46,000 RKM i.e., 72% by end of 2021 from 41,548 RKM on 1st Oct\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 2020. 100% electrification of Broad-Gauge routes will be completed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 by December, 2023.\par
56. For Passenger convenience and safety the following measures are\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 proposed:\par
a. We will introduce the aesthetically designed Vista Dome LHB coach\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 on tourist routes to give a better travel experience to passengers.\par
b. The safety measures undertaken in the past few years have borne\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 results. To further strengthen this effort, high density network and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 highly utilized network routes of Indian railways will be provided\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 with an indigenously developed automatic train protection system\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 that eliminates train collision due to human error.\par
c. I am providing a record sum of `1,10,055 crores, for Railways of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 which `1,07,100 crores is for capital expenditure.\par
\b Urban Infrastructure\b0\par
57. We will work towards raising the share of public transport in urban\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 areas through expansion of metro rail network and augmentation of city bus\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 service. A new scheme will be launched at a cost of `18,000 cr\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 support augmentation of public bus transport services. The scheme will\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 facilitate deployment of \f0\lang2057 I\f2\lang9 nnovative PPP models to enable private sector\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 players to finance, acquire, operate and maintain over 20,000 buses. The\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 scheme will boost the automobile sector, provide fillip to economic growth,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 create employment opportunities for our youth and enhance ease of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 mobility for urban residents.\par
58. A total of 702 km of conventional metro is operational and another\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 1,016 km of metro and RRTS is \f0\lang2057 u\f2\lang9 nder construction in 27 cities. Two new\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 technologies i.e., \lquote MetroLite\rquote  and \lquote MetroNeo\rquote  will be deployed to provide\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 metro rail systems at much lesser cost with same experience, convenience\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and safety in Tier-2 cities and peripheral areas of Tier-1 cities.\par
59. Central counterpart funding will be provided to:\par
a. Kochi Metro Railway Phase-II of 11.5 km at a cost of `1957.05 crores.\par
b. Chennai Metro Railway Phase-II of 118.9 km at a cost of `63,246\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 crores.\par
c. Bengaluru Metro Railway Project Phase 2A and 2B of 58.19 km at a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 cost of `14,788 crores.\par
d. Nagpur Metro Rail Project Phase-II and Nashik Metro at a cost of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 `5,976 cr and `2,092 cr respectively.\par
\b Power Infrastructure\b0\par
60. The past 6 years have seen a number of reforms and achievements\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 in the power sector. We have added 139 Giga Watts of installed capacity,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 connected an additional 2.8 crores households and added 1.41 lakh circuit\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 km of transmission lines.\par
61. The distribution companies across the country are monopolies,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 either government or private. There is a need to provide choice to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 consumers by promoting competition. A framework will be put in place to\par
give consumers alternatives to choose from among more than one\par
\b Distribution Company.\b0\par
62. The viability of Distribution Companies is a serious concern. A\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 revamped reforms-based result-linked power distribution sector scheme\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 will be launched with an outlay of `3,05,984 crores over 5 years. The\par
scheme will provide assistance to DISCOMS for Infrastructure creation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 including pre-paid smart metering and feeder separation, upgradation of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 systems, etc., tied to financial improvements.\par
63. Prime Minister, while speaking at the 3rd Re-inVest Conference in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 November 2020, had announced plans to launch a comprehensive National\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Hydrogen Energy Mission. It is now proposed to launch a \b Hydrogen Energy\b0\par
Mission in 2021-22 for generating hydrogen from green power sources.\par
\b Ports, Shipping, Waterways\b0\par
64. Major Ports will be moving from managing their operational services\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 on their own to a model where a private partner will manage it for them.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 For the purpose, 7 projects worth more than `2,000 crores will be offered\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 by the Major Ports on Public Private Partnership mode in FY21-22.\par
65. A scheme to promote flagging of merchant ships in India will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 launched by providing subsidy support to Indian shipping companies in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 global tenders floated by Ministries and CPSEs. An amount of `1624 crores\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 will be provided over 5 years. This initiative will enable greater training and employment opportunities for Indian seafarers besides enhancing Indian\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 companies share in global shipping.\par
66. India has enacted Recycling of Ships Act, 2019 and acceded to the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Hong Kong International Convention. Around 90 ship recycling yards at\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Alang in Gujarat have already achieved HKC-compliant certificates.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Efforts\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 will be made to bring more ships to India from Europe and Japan. Recycling\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 capacity of around 4.5 Million Light Displacement Tonne (LDT) will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 doubled by 2024. This is expected to generate an additional 1.5 lakh jobs for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 our youth.\par
\b Petroleum & Natural Gas\b0\par
67. Our government has kept fuel supplies running across the country\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 without interruption during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Taking note of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 the crucial nature of this sector in people\rquote s lives, the following key initiatives\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 are being announced:\par
a. Ujjwala Scheme which has benefited 8 cr households will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 extended to cover 1 cr more beneficiaries.\par
b. We will add 100 more districts in next 3 years to the City Gas\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Distribution network.\par
c. A gas pipeline project will be taken up in Union Territory of Jammu &\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Kashmir.\par
d. An independent Gas Transport System Operator will be set up for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 facilitation and coordination of booking of common carrier capacity\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 in all-natural gas pipelines on a non-discriminatory open access\par
basis.\par
\b Financial Capital\b0\par
68. I propose to consolidate the provisions of SEBI Act, 1992,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Depositories Act, 1996, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Government Securities Act, 2007 into a rationalized single Securities\par
Markets Code.\par
69. The Government would support the development of a world class\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Fin-Tech hub at the GIFT-IFSC.\par
70. To instill confidence amongst the participants in the Corporate Bond\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Market during times of stress and to generally enhance secondary market\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 liquidity, it is proposed to create a permanent institutional framework. The\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 proposed body would purchase investment grade debt securities both in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 stressed and normal times and help in the development of the Bond\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 market.\par
71. In the budget of 2018-19, Government had announced its intent to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 establish a system of regulated gold exchanges in the country. For the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 purpose, SEBI will be notified as the regulator and Warehousing\par
Development and Regulatory Authority will be strengthened to set up a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 commodity market eco system arrangement including vaulting, assaying,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 logistics etc in addition to warehousing.\par
72. Towards investor protection, I propose to introduce an investor\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 charter as a right of all financial investors across all financial products.\f0\lang2057\par
\f2\lang9 73. To give a further boost to the non-conventional energy sector, I\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 propose to provide additional capital infusion of `1,000 crores to Solar\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Energy Corporation of India and `1,500 crores to Indian Renewable Energy\par
Development Agency.\par
\b Increasing FDI in Insurance Sector\b0\par
74. I propose to amend the Insurance Act, 1938 to increase the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 permissible FDI limit from 49% to 74% in Insurance Companies and allow\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 foreign ownership and control with safeguards. Under the new structure,\par
the majority of Directors on the Board and key management persons would\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be resident Indians, with at least 50% of Directors being Independent\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Directors, and specified percentage of profits being retained as general\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 reserve.\par
\b Stressed Asset Resolution by setting up a New Structure\b0\par
75. The high level of provisioning by public sector banks of their stressed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 assets calls for measures to clean up the bank books. An Asset 16\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company would\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt and then\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 manage and dispose of the assets to Alternate Investment Funds and other\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 potential investors for eventual value realization.\par
Recapitalization of PSBs\f0\lang2057  \par
\f2\lang9 76. To further consolidate the financial capacity of PSBs, further\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 recapitalization of `20,000 crores is proposed in 2021-22.\par
\b Deposit Insurance\b0\par
77. Last year, Government had approved an increase in the Deposit\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Insurance cover from `1 lakh to `5 lakhs for bank customers. I shall be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 moving amendments to the DICGC Act, 1961 in this Session itself to\par
streamline the provisions, so that if a bank is temporarily unable to fulfil its\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 obligations, the depositors of such a bank can get easy and time-bound\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 access to their deposits to the extent of the deposit insurance cover. This\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 would help depositors of banks that are currently under stress.\par
78. To improve credit discipline while continuing to protect the interest\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 of small borrowers, for NBFCs with minimum asset size of `100 crores, the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 minimum loan size eligible for debt recovery under the Securitisation and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest\par
(SARFAESI) Act, 2002 is proposed to be reduced from the existing level of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 `50 lakhs to `20 lakhs.\par
\b Company Matters\b0\par
79. The decriminalizing of the procedural and technical compoundable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 offences under the Companies Act, 2013, is now complete. I now propose\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 to next take up decriminalization of the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Act, 2008.\par
80. Sir, I propose to revise the definition under the Companies Act, 2013\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 for Small Companies by increasing their thresholds for Paid up capital from\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9\ldblquote not exceeding `50 Lakh\rdblquote  to \ldblquote not exceeding `2 Crore\rdblquote  and turnover from\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9\ldblquote not exceeding `2 Crore\rdblquote  to \ldblquote not exceeding `20 Crore\rdblquote . This will benefit more than two lakh companies in easing their compliance requirements.\par
81. As a further measure which directly benefits Start-ups and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Innovators, I propose to incentivize the incorporation of One Person\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Companies (OPCs) by allowing OPCs to grow without any restrictions on\par
paid up capital and turnover, allowing their conversion into any other type\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 of company at any time, reducing the residency limit for an Indian citizen to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 set up an OPC from 182 days to 120 days and also allow Non Resident\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Indians (NRIs) to incorporate OPCs in India.\par
82. To ensure faster resolution of cases, NCLT framework will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 strengthened, e-Courts system shall be implemented and alternate\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 methods of debt resolution and special framework for MSMEs shall be\par
introduced.\par
83. During the coming fiscal 2021-22, we will be launching data\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 analytics, artificial intelligence, machine learning driven MCA21 Version 3.0.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 This Version 3.0 will have additional modules for e-scrutiny, e-\f0\lang2057 A\f2\lang9 djudication,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 e-Consultation and Compliance Management.\par
\b Disinvestment and Strategic Sale\par
\b0 84. In spite of COVID-19, we have kept working towards strategic\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 disinvestment. A number of transactions namely BPCL, Air India, Shipping\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML,\par
Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam limited among others would be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 completed in 2021-22. Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 privatization of two Public Sector Banks and one General Insurance\par
company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and I propose to introduce the amendments in this Session itself.\par
85. In 2021-22 we would also bring the IPO of LIC for which I am\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 bringing the requisite amendments in this Session itself.\par
86. In the AtmaNirbhar Package, I had announced that we will come out\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 with a policy of strategic disinvestment of public sector enterprises. I am\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 happy to inform the House that the Government has approved the said\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 policy. The policy provides a clear roadmap for disinvestment in all nonstrategic and strategic sectors. We have kept four areas that are strategic where bare minimum CPSEs will be maintained and rest privatized. In the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 remaining sectors all CPSEs will be privatized. The main highlights of the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 policy are mentioned at Annexure-III.\par
87. To fast forward the disinvestment policy, I am asking NITI to work\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 out on the next list of Central Public Sector companies that would be taken\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 up for strategic disinvestment.\par
88. To similarly incentivise States to take to disinvestment of their Public\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Sector Companies, we will work out an incentive package of Central Funds\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 for States.\par
89. Idle assets will not contribute to AtmaNirbhar Bharat. The non-core\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 assets largely consist of surplus land with government\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Ministries/Departments and Public Sector Enterprises. Monetizing of land\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 can either be by way of direct sale or concession or by similar means. This\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 requires special abilities and for this purpose, I propose to use a Special\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Purpose Vehicle in the form of a company that would carry out this activity.\par
90. In order to ensure timely completion of closure of sick or loss\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 making CPSEs, we will introduce a revised mechanism that will ensure\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 timely closure of such units.\par
91. I have estimated ` 1,75,000 crores as receipts from disinvestment in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 BE 2021-22.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Government Financial Reforms\par
92. Under the Treasury Single Account (TSA) System autonomous bodies\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 directly draw funds from the Government\rquote s account at the time of actual\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 expenditure, saving interest costs. We will extend the TSA System for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 universal application from 2021-22.\par
93. On the recommendation of the Fifteenth Finance Commission, we\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 have undertaken a detailed exercise to rationalise and bring down the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 number of Centrally Sponsored Schemes. This will enable consolidation of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 outlays for better impact.\par
94. The Government is committed to the development of Multi-State\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Cooperatives and will provide all support to them. To further streamline the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9\lquote Ease of Doing Business\rquote  for Cooperatives, I propose to set up a separate\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Administrative Structure for them.\par
\par
\b 3. Inclusive Development for Aspirational India\b0\par
95. Honourable Speaker Sir, under this pillar, I will cover Agriculture and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Allied sectors, farmers\rquote  welfare and rural India, migrant workers and labour,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and financial inclusion.\par
\b Agriculture\b0\par
96. Our Government is committed to the welfare of farmers. The MSP\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 regime has undergone a sea change to assure price that is at least 1.5 times\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 the cost of production across all commodities. The procurement has also\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 continued to increase at a steady pace. This has resulted in increase in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 payment to farmers substantially.\par
97. In case of wheat, the total amount paid to farmers in 2013-2014 was\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 `33,874 crores. In 2019-2020 it was `62,802 crores, and even better, in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 2020-2021, this amount, paid to farmers, was `75,060 crores. The number\par
of wheat growing farmers that were benefitted increased in 2020-21 to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 43.36 lakhs as compared to 35.57 lakhs in 2019-20.\par
98. For paddy, the amount paid in 2013-14 was `63,928 crores. In 2019-2020 this increased `1,41,930 crores. Even better, in 2020-2021, this is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 further estimated to increase to `172,752 crores. The number of farmers\par
benefitted increased from 1.24 crores in 2019-20 to 1.54 crores in 2020-21.\par
99. In the same vein, in case of pulses, the amount paid in 2013-2014\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 was `236 crores. In 2019-20 it increased `8,285 crores. Now, in 2020-2021,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 it is at `10,530 crores, a more than 40 times increase from 2013-14.\par
100. The receipts to cotton farmers have seen a stupendous increase\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 from `90 crores in 2013-14 to `25,974 crores (as on 27th January 2021).\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 The details are in Annexure IV. \par
101. Early this year, Honourable Prime Minister had launched SWAMITVA\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Scheme. Under this, a record of rights is being given to property owners in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 villages. Up till now, about 1.80 lakh property-owners in 1,241 villages have\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 been provided cards. I now propose during FY21-22 to extend this to cover\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 all states/UTs.\par
102. To provide adequate credit to our farmers, I have enhanced the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 agricultural credit target to `16.5 lakh crores in FY22. We will focus on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 ensuring increased credit flows to animal husbandry, dairy, and fisheries.\par
103. We are enhancing the allocation to the Rural Infrastructure\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Development Fund from `30,000 crores to `40,000 crores.\par
104. The Micro Irrigation Fund, with a corpus of `5,000 crores has been\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 created under NABARD, I propose to double it by augmenting it by another\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 `5,000 crores.\par
105. To boost value addition in agriculture and allied products and their\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 exports, the scope of \lquote Operation Green Scheme\rquote  that is presently applicable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 to tomatoes, onions, and potatoes, will be enlarged to include 22 perishable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 products.\par
106. Around 1.68 crores farmers are registered and ` 1.14 lakh crores of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 trade value has been carried out through e-NAMs. Keeping in view the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 transparency and competitiveness that e-NAM has brought into the\par
agricultural market, 1,000 more mandis will be integrated with e-NAM.\par
107. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund would be made available to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 APMCs for augmenting their infrastructure facilities.\par
\b Fisheries\b0\par
108. I am proposing substantial investments in the development of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 modern fishing harbours and fish landing centres. To start with, 5 major\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 fishing harbours \endash  Kochi, Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Paradip, and Petuaghat \endash\lang2057  \lang9 will be developed as hubs of economic activity. We will also develop inland\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 fishing harbours and fish-landing centres along the banks of rivers and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 waterways. \par
109. Seaweed farming is an emerging sector with potential to transform\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 the lives of coastal communities. It will provide large scale employment and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 additional incomes. To promote seaweed cultivation, I propose a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Multipurpose Seaweed Park to be established in Tamil Nadu.\par
\b Migrant Workers and Labourers\b0\par
110. We have launched the One Nation One Ration Card scheme through\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 which beneficiaries can claim their rations anywhere in the country.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Migrant workers in particular benefit from this scheme \endash  those staying away\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 from their families can partially claim their ration where they are stationed,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 while their family, in their native places, can claim the rest. I am happy to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 inform you that One Nation One Ration Card plan is under implementation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 by 32 states and UTs, reaching about 69 crores beneficiaries \endash  that\rquote s a total\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 of 86% beneficiaries covered. The remaining 4 states and UTs will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 integrated in the next few months.\par
111. To further extend our efforts towards the unorganised labour force\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 migrant workers particularly, I propose to launch a portal that will collect\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 relevant information on gig, building, and construction-workers among\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 others. This will help formulate Health, Housing, Skill, Insurance, Credit, and\par
food schemes for migrant workers.\par
112. We will conclude a process that began 20 years ago, with the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 implementation of the 4 labour codes. For the first time globally, social\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 security benefits will extend to gig and platform workers. Minimum wages\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 will apply to all categories of workers, and they will all be covered by the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Employees State Insurance Corporation. Women will be allowed to work in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 all categories and also in the night-shifts with adequate protection. At the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 same time, compliance burden on employers will be reduced with single\par
registration and licensing, and online returns.\par
\b Financial Inclusion\b0\par
113. To further facilitate credit flow under the scheme of Stand Up India\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 for SCs, STs, and women, I propose to reduce the margin money\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 requirement from 25% to 15%, and to also include loans for activities allied\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 to agriculture.\par
114. We have taken a number of steps to support the MSME sector. In\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 this Budget, I have provided `15,700 crores to this sector, more than double\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 of this year\rquote s BE.\par
\b\par
4. Reinvigorating Human Capital\b0\par
115. The National Education Policy (NEP) announced recently has had\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 good reception.\par
\b School Education\b0\par
116. More than 15,000 schools will be qualitatively strengthened to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 include all components of the National Education Policy. They shall emerge\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 as exemplar schools in their regions, handholding and mentoring other\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 schools to achieve the ideals of the Policy.\par
117. 100 new Sainik Schools will be set up in partnership with NGOs/private schools/states.\par
\b Higher Education\b0\par
118. In Budget 2019-20, I had mentioned about the setting-up of Higher\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Education Commission of India. We would be introducing Legislation this\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 year to implement the same. It will be an umbrella body having 4 separate\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 vehicles for standard-setting, accreditation, regulation, and funding.\par
119. Many of our cities have various research institutions, universities,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and colleges supported by the Government of India. Hyderabad for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 example, has about 40 such major institutions. In 9 such cities, we will\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 create formal umbrella structures so that these institutions can have better\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 synergy, while also retaining their internal autonomy. A Glue Grant will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 set aside for this purpose.\par
120. For accessible higher education in Ladakh, I propose to set up a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Central University in Leh.\par
121. The other important projects to be taken up as part of NEP are listed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 at Annexure V.\par
\b Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Welfare\b0\par
122. We have set ourselves a target of establishing 750 Eklavya model\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 residential schools in our tribal areas. I propose to increase the unit cost of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 each such school from `20 crores to `38 crores, and for hilly and difficult\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 areas, to `48 crores. This would help in creating robust infrastructure\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 facilities for our tribal students.\par
123. We have revamped the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, for the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 welfare of Scheduled Castes. I have also enhanced the Central Assistance in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 this regard. We are allotting ` 35,219 crores for 6 years till 2025-2026, to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 benefit 4 crores SC students.\par
\b Skilling\b0\par
124. In 2016, we had launched the National Apprenticeship Promotion\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Scheme. The Government proposes to amend the Apprenticeship Act with a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 view to further enhancing apprenticeship opportunities for our youth. We\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 will realign the existing scheme of National Apprenticeship Training Scheme\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 (NATS) for providing post-education apprenticeship, training of graduates\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and diploma holders in Engineering. Over `3,000 crores will be provided for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 this.\par
125. An initiative is underway, in partnership with the United Arab\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Emirates (UAE), to benchmark skill qualifications, assessment, and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 certification, accompanied by the deployment of certified workforce. We\par
also have a collaborative Training Inter Training Programme (TITP) between\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 India and Japan to facilitate transfer of Japanese industrial and vocational\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 skills, technique, and knowledge. We will take forward this initiative with\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 many more countries.\par
\b\par
5. Innovation and R&D\b0\par
126. In my Budget Speech of July 2019, I had announced the National\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Research Foundation. We have now worked out the modalities and the NRF\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 outlay will be of `50,000 crores, over 5 years. It will ensure that the overall research ecosystem of the country is strengthened with focus on identified\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 national-priority thrust areas.\par
127. There has been a manifold increase in digital payments in the recent\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 past. To give a further boost to digital transactions, I earmark `1,500 crores\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 for a proposed scheme that will provide financial incentive to promote\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 digital modes of payment.\par
128. We will undertake a new initiative \endash  National Language Translation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Mission (NTLM). This will enable the wealth of governance-and-policy\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 related knowledge on the Internet being made available in major Indian\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 languages.\par
129. The New Space India Limited (NSIL), a PSU under the Department of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Space will execute the PSLV-CS51 launch, carrying the Amazonia Satellite\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 from Brazil, along with a few smaller Indian satellites.\par
130. As part of the Gaganyaan mission activities, four Indian astronauts\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 are being trained on Generic Space Flight aspects, in Russia. The first\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 unmanned launch is slated for December 2021.\par
131. Our oceans are a storehouse of living and non-living resources. To\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 better understand this realm, we will launch a Deep Ocean Mission with a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 budget outlay of more than `4,000 crores, over five years. This Mission will\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 cover deep ocean survey exploration and projects for the conservation of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 deep sea bio-diversity.\par
\b 6. Minimum Government, Maximum Governance\b0\par
132. Speaker Sir, I now come to the last of the six pillars. This will outline\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 plans for reforms in one of our core principles of minimum government,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 maximum governance.\par
133. We have taken a number of steps to bring reforms in Tribunals in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 the last few years for speedy delivery of justice. Continuing with the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 reforms process, I now propose to take further measures to rationalize the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 functioning of Tribunals.\par
134. We have introduced the National Commission for Allied Healthcare\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Professionals Bill in Parliament, with a view to ensure transparent and efficient regulation of the 56 allied healthcare professions. Additionally, to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 bring about transparency, efficiency and governance reforms in the nursing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 profession, The National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Bill will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 introduced by the government for passing.\par
135. To have ease of doing business for those who deal with Government\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 or CPSEs, and carry out contracts, I propose to set up a Conciliation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Mechanism and mandate its use for quick resolution of contractual\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 disputes. This will instil confidence in private investors and contractors.\par
136. The forthcoming Census could be the first digital census in the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 history of India. For this monumental and milestone-marking task, I have\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 allocated `3,768 crores in the year 2021-2022.\par
137. Goa is celebrating the diamond jubilee year of the state\rquote s liberation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 from Portuguese rule. From the GoI\rquote s side, I propose a grant of `300 crores\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 to the Government of Goa for the celebrations.\par
138. I propose to provide `1,000 crores for the welfare of Tea workers\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 especially women and their children in Assam and West Bengal. A special\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 scheme will be devised for the same.\par
\b\par
Fiscal Position\b0\par
139. In these last few paragraphs of Part A of my speech, I draw the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 attention of this august House to the fact that, at the beginning of the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 current Financial Year, the pandemic\rquote s impact on the economy resulted in a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 weak revenue inflow. This was combined with high expenditure to provide\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 essential relief to vulnerable sections of the society especially the poor,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 women, SCs and STs.\par
140. Unlike many other countries, we opted for a series of medium-sized\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 packages during the pandemic so that we could calibrate and target our\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 response according to an evolving situation. Once the health situation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 stabilised, and the lockdown was being slowly lifted, we switched to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 ramping up Government spending so as to revive domestic demand. As a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 result, against an original BE expenditure of `30.42 lakh crores for 2020-2021, our RE estimates are `34.50 lakh crores. We have maintained the quality of expenditure. The capital expenditure, estimated in RE is ` 4.39\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 lakh crores in 2020-2021 as against `4.12 lakh crores in BE 2020-21.\par
141. The fiscal deficit in RE 2020-21 is pegged at 9.5% of GDP. We have\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 funded this through Government borrowings, multilateral borrowings, Small\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Saving Funds and short term borrowings. We would need another ` 80,000\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 crores for which we would be approaching the markets in these 2 months.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 To ensure that the economy is given the required push, our BE estimates for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 expenditure in 2021-2022, are `34.83 lakh crores. This includes ` 5.54 lakh\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 crores as capital expenditure, an increase of 34.5% over the BE figure of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 2020-2021. The fiscal deficit in BE 2021-2022 is estimated to be 6.8% of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 GDP. The gross borrowing from the market for the next year would be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 around `12 lakh crores. We plan to continue with our path of fiscal\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 consolidation, and intend to reach a fiscal deficit level below 4.5% of GDP by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 2025-2026 with a fairly steady decline over the period. We hope to achieve\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 the consolidation by first, increasing the buoyancy of tax revenue through\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 improved compliance, and secondly, by increased receipts from\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 monetisation of assets, including Public Sector Enterprises and land. The\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Contingency Fund of India is being proposed to be augmented from `500\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 crores to `30,000 crores through Finance Bill.\par
142. In accordance with the views of the 15th Finance Commission, we\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 are allowing a normal ceiling of net borrowing for the states at 4% of GSDP\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 for the year 2021-2022. A portion of this ceiling will be earmarked to be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 spent on incremental capital expenditure. Additional borrowing ceiling of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 0.5% of GSDP will also be provided subject to conditions. States will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 expected to reach a fiscal deficit of 3% of GSDP by 2023-24, as\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 recommended by the 15th Finance Commission.\par
143. In the July 2019-2020 Budget, I introduced the Statement 27 on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Extra Budgetary Resources \endash  it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 closed the borrowings of Government\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 agencies that went towards funding GoI schemes, and whose repayment\par
burden was on the Government. In my 2020-2021 Budget, I enhanced the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 scope and coverage of the Statement, by including the loans provided by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Government to the FCI. Taking a step further in this direction, I propose to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 discontinue the NSSF Loan to FCI for Food Subsidy and accordingly Budget\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Provisions have been made in RE 2020-21 and BE 2021-22. The Extra\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Budgetary Resources details are at Annexure VI.\par
144. We know that the FRBM Act mandates fiscal deficit of 3% of GDP to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be achieved by 31st March 2020-2021. The effect of this year\rquote s unforeseen\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and unprecedented circumstances has necessitated the submission of a\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 deviation statement under Sections 4 (5) and 7 (3) (b) of the FRBM Act\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 which I am laying on the Table of the House as part of the FRBM\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Documents.\par
145. Towards achieving Central Government fiscal deficit along the broad\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 path that I have already indicated; I will be introducing an amendment to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 the FRBM Act.\par
146. On 9th December 2020, the 15th Finance Commission submitted its\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 final report, covering the period 2021-2026 to the Rashtrapati ji. The\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 Government has laid the Commission\rquote s report, along with the explanatory\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 memorandum in the Parliament retaining the vertical shares of the states at\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 41%. We recognise our commitment to fiscal federalism and propose\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 therefore to adhere to this recommendation. Jammu and Kashmir in the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 14th Finance Commission was entitled to get devolution being a State. Now,\par
the funds to the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh would be provided\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 by the Centre. I have also \f0\lang2057 p\f2\lang9 rovided, on the Commission\rquote s recommendation,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 `1,18,452 crores as Revenue Deficit Grant to 17 states in 2021-2022, as\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 against `74,340 crores to 14 States in 2020-2021.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 I would, now, move to Part B of my speech.\par
\par
\b PART B\b0\par
147. Honourable Speaker, the world is facing a serious challenge of the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 pandemic and its aftershock. In these trying times, when many economies\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 are struggling to revive, our people and our industry have exhibited\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 remarkable resilience.\par
148. As I mentioned already, post-pandemic, a new world order seems to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 be emerging, one in which Asia is poised to occupy a prominent position\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 and India will have a leading role therein. In this scenario, our tax system\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 has to be transparent, efficient, and should promote investments and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 employment in our country. At the same time it should put minimum\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang9 burden on our tax payers.\f0\lang1033\par
A King/Ruler is the one who creates and acquires wealth,\par
protects and distributes it for common good.\par
- Thirukkural 385\par
\b Direct Tax Proposals\b0\par
149. Keeping this in mind, our Government introduced a series of reforms in the Direct tax system for the benefit of our taxpayers and economy. Few months prior to the pandemic, in order to attract investments we slashed our Corporate tax rate to make it among the lowest in the world. The Dividend Distribution Tax too was abolished. The burden of taxation on small taxpayers was eased by increasing rebates. In 2020, the return filers saw a dramatic increase to 6.48 crore from 3.31 crore in 2014.\par
150. In the Direct Tax administration, we had recently introduced the Faceless Assessment and Faceless Appeal. I now seek to take further steps to simplify the tax administration, ease compliance, and reduce litigation.\par
\b Relief to Senior Citizens\b0\par
151. I begin my direct tax proposals by offering my pranaam to our senior citizens. Many of them, despite having foregone several basic necessities of their own, have strived to build our nation.\par
152. Now in the 75th year of Independence of our country, when we continue our endeavour with renewed vigour, we shall reduce compliance burden on our senior citizens who are 75 years of age and above. For senior citizens who only have pension and interest income, I propose exemption from filing their income tax returns. The paying bank will deduct the necessary tax on their income.\par
\b Reduction in Time for Income Tax Proceedings\par
\b0 153. Honourable Speaker, presently, an assessment can be re-opened up to 6 years and in serious tax fraud cases for up to 10 years. As a result, taxpayers have to remain under uncertainty for a long time.\par
154. I therefore propose to reduce this time-limit for re-opening of assessment to 3 years from the present 6 years. In serious tax evasion cases too, only where there is evidence of concealment of income of `50 lakh or more in a year, can the assessment be re-opened up to 10 years. Even this reopening can be done only after the approval of the Principal Chief Commissioner, the highest level of the Income Tax Department.\par
\b Setting up the Dispute Resolution Committee\b0\par
155. Honourable Speaker, it has been the resolve of this Government to reduce litigation, which mars the present taxation system.\par
156. The Government came out with the Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme to give taxpayers an opportunity to settle long pending disputes and be relieved of further strain on their time and resources. The response from the taxpayers has been the best ever as over 1 lakh ten thousand taxpayers have already opted to settle tax disputes of over `85,000 crores under this Scheme.\par
157. To further reduce litigation for small taxpayers, I propose to constitute a Dispute Resolution committee for them, which will be faceless to ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability. Anyone with a taxable income up to `50 lakh and disputed income up to `10 lakh shall be eligible to approach the Committee.\par
\b Faceless ITAT\b0\par
158. For ease of compliance and to reduce discretion, we are committed to make the taxation processes faceless. The Government has already introduced faceless assessment and appeal this year.\par
159. The next level of income tax appeal is the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. I now propose to make this Tribunal faceless. We shall establish a National Faceless Income Tax Appellate Tribunal Centre. All communication between the Tribunal and the appellant shall be electronic. Where personal hearing is needed, it shall be done through video-conferencing.\par
\b Relaxation to NRI\b0\par
160. When Non-Resident Indians return to India, they have issues with respect to their accrued incomes in their foreign retirement accounts. This is usually due to a mismatch in taxation periods. They also face difficulties in getting credit for Indian taxes in foreign jurisdictions. I propose to notify rules for removing their hardship of double taxation.\par
\b Exemption from Audit\b0\par
161. Currently, if your turnover exceeds `1 crore, you have to get your accounts audited. In the February 2020 Budget, I had increased the limit for tax audit to `5 crore for those who carry out 95% of their transactions\par
digitally. To further incentivise digital transactions and reduce compliance burden, I propose to increase this limit for tax audit for such persons from `5 crore to `10 crore.\par
\b Relief for Dividend\b0\par
162. In the previous Budget, I had abolished the Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT) in order to incentivise investment. Dividend was made taxable in the hands of shareholders. Now, in order to provide ease of compliance, I propose to make dividend payment to REIT/ InvIT exempt from TDS. Further, as the amount of dividend income cannot be estimated correctly by the shareholders for paying advance tax, I propose to provide that advance tax liability on dividend income shall arise only after the declaration/payment of dividend. Also, for Foreign Portfolio Investors, I propose to enable deduction of tax on dividend income at lower treaty rate. Attracting foreign investment into infrastructure sector\par
163. In the last budget, for attracting foreign investment in the infrastructure sector, we had granted 100% tax exemption, subject to certain conditions, to foreign Sovereign Wealth Funds and Pension Funds, on their income from investment in Indian infrastructure. We have noticed that few of such Funds are facing difficulties in meeting some of these conditions. In order to ensure that a large number of Funds invest in India, I propose to relax some of these conditions relating to prohibition on private funding, restriction on commercial activities, and direct investment in infrastructure.\par
164. In order to allow funding of infrastructure by issue of Zero Coupon Bonds, I propose to make notified Infrastructure Debt Funds eligible to raise funds by issuing tax efficient Zero Coupon Bonds.\par
\b Affordable Housing/Rental Housing\b0\par
165. This Government sees \f2\lquote\f0 Housing for All\f2\rquote  \f0 and affordable housing as priority areas. In the July 2019 Budget, I provided an additional deduction of interest, amounting to `1.5 lakh, for loan taken to purchase an affordable house. I propose to extend the eligibility of this deduction by one more year, to 31st March 2022. The additional deduction of `1.5 lakh shall therefore be available for loans taken up till 31st March 2022, for the purchase of an affordable house.\par
166. Further, to keep up the supply of affordable houses, I propose that affordable housing projects can avail a tax holiday for one more year \f2\endash  till\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 31st March, 2022.\par
167. We are committed to promote supply of Affordable Rental Housing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for migrant workers. For this, I propose to allow tax exemption for notified\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Affordable Rental Housing Projects.\b\par
Tax incentives to IFSC\par
\b0 168. As I mentioned in Part A of this speech, the Government is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 committed to make the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) in GIFT\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 City a global financial hub. In addition to the tax incentives already\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 provided, I propose to include, among others, tax holiday for capital gains\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for aircraft leasing companies, tax exemption for aircraft lease rentals paid\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to foreign lessors; tax incentive for relocating foreign funds in the IFSC; and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to allow tax exemption to the investment division of foreign banks located\par
in IFSC.\par
\b Pre-filling of Returns\b0\par
169. Honourable Speaker, in order to ease compliance for the taxpayer,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 details of salary income, tax payments, TDS, etc. already come pre-filled in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 income tax returns. To further ease filing of returns, details of capital gains\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 from listed securities, dividend income, and interest from banks, post office,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 etc. will also be pre-filled.\par
\b Relief to Small Trusts\b0\par
170. We hope to reduce compliance burden on small charitable trusts\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 running educational institutions and hospitals. So far, there is a blanket\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 exemption to such entities, whose annual receipt does not exceed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 `1 crore. I now propose to increase this amount to `5 crore.\par
\b Labour Welfare\b0\par
171. We have noticed that some employers deduct the contribution of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 employees towards Provident funds, superannuation funds, and other\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 social security funds but do not deposit these contributions within the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 specified time. For the employees, this means a loss of interest or income.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 In cases where an employer later becomes financially unviable, non-deposit\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 results in a permanent loss for the employees.\par
172. In order to ensure that employees\rquote  contributions are deposited on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 time, I reiterate that the late deposit of employee\rquote s contribution by the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 employer will not be allowed as deduction to the employer.\par
Incentives for Start-ups\f0\lang2057 .\par
\f2\lang1033 173. In order to incentivise start-ups in the country, I propose to extend\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the eligibility for claiming tax holiday for start-ups by one more year - till\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 31st March, 2022. Further, in order to incentivise funding of the start-ups, I\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 propose to extend the capital gains exemption for investment in start-ups\par
by one more year - till 31st March, 2022.\par
\b Indirect Tax Proposals\par
GST\b0\par
174. Before I come to my Indirect Tax proposals, I would like to appraise\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the House on GST. The GST is now four years old, and we have taken several\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 measures to further simplify it. Some of the measures include:\par
i. nil return through SMS,\par
ii. quarterly return and monthly payment for small taxpayers,\par
iii. electronic invoice system,\par
iv. validated input tax statement,\par
v. pre-filled editable GST return, and\par
vi. staggering of returns filing.\par
The capacity of GSTN system has also been enhanced. We have also\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 deployed deep analytics and Artificial Intelligence to identify tax evaders\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 and fake billers and launched special drives against them.\par
175. The results speak for themselves. We have made record collections\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 in the last few months.\par
176. The GST Council has painstakingly thrashed out thorny issues. As\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Chairperson of the Council, I want to assure the House that we shall take\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 every possible measure to smoothen the GST further, and remove\par
anomalies such as the inverted duty structure.\par
\b Custom Duty Rationalization\par
\b0 177. Our Custom Duty Policy should have the twin objective of promoting\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 domestic manufacturing and helping India get onto global value chain and 34\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 export better. The thrust now has to be on easy access to raw materials and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 exports of value added products.\par
178. Towards this, last year, we started overhauling the Customs Duty\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 structure, eliminating 80 outdated exemptions. I also thank everyone who\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 responded overwhelmingly to a crowd-sourcing call for \f0\lang2057  s\f2\lang1033 uggestions on this\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 revamp. I now propose to review more than 400 old exemptions this year.\par
We will conduct this through extensive consultations, and from 1st October\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 2021, we will put in place a revised customs duty structure, free of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 distortions. I also propose that any new customs duty exemption\par
henceforth will have validity up to the 31st March following two years from\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the date of its issue.\par
\b Electronic and Mobile Phone Industry\b0\par
179. Domestic electronic manufacturing has grown rapidly. We are now\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 exporting items like mobiles and chargers. For greater domestic value\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 addition, we are withdrawing a few exemptions on parts of chargers and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 sub-parts of mobiles. Further, some parts of mobiles will move from \lquote nil\rquote\lang2057  \lang1033 rate to a moderate 2.5%.\par
\b Iron and Steel\b0\par
180. MSMEs and other user industries have been severely hit by a recent\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 sharp rise in iron and steel prices. Therefore, we are reducing Customs duty\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 uniformly to 7.5% on semis, flat, and long products of non-alloy, alloy, and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 stainless steels. To provide relief to metal re-cyclers, mostly MSMEs, I am\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 exempting duty on steel scrap for a period up to 31st March, 2022. Further,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 I am also revoking ADD and CVD on certain steel products. Also, to provide\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 relief to copper recyclers, I am reducing duty on copper scrap from 5% to\par
2.5%.\par
\b Textile\b0\par
181. The Textiles Sector generates employment and contributes\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 significantly to the economy. There is a need to rationalize duties on raw\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 material inputs to manmade textiles. We are now bringing nylon chain on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 par with polyester and other man-made fibers. We are uniformly reducing the BCD rates on caprolactam, nylon chips and nylon fiber & yarn to 5%.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 This will help the textile industry, MSMEs, and exports, too.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033\par
\b Chemicals\b0\par
182. We have calibrated customs duty rates on chemicals to encourage\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 domestic value addition and to remove inversions. Apart from other items,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 we are reducing customs duty on Naptha to 2.5% to correct inversion.\par
\b Gold and Silver\b0\par
183. Gold and silver presently attract a basic customs duty of 12.5%.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Since the duty was raised from 10% in July 2019, prices of precious metals\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 have risen sharply. To bring it closer to previous levels, we are \f0\lang2057 r\f2\lang1033 ationalizing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 custom duty on gold and silver.\par
\b Renewable Energy\par
\b0 184. In Part A, we have already acknowledged that solar energy has huge\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 promise for India. To build up domestic capacity, we will notify a phased\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 manufacturing plan for solar cells and solar panels. At \f0\lang2057 p\f2\lang1033 resent, to encourage\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 domestic production, we are raising duty on solar invertors from 5% to 20%,\par
and on solar lanterns from 5% to 15%.\par
\b Capital Equipment and Auto Parts\b0\par
185. There is immense potential in manufacturing heavy capital\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 equipment domestically. We will comprehensively review the rate structure\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 in due course. However, we are revising duty rates on certain items\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 immediately. We propose to withdraw exemptions on tunnel boring\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 machine. It will attract a customs duty of 7.5%; and its parts a duty of 2.5%.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 We are raising customs duty on certain auto parts to 15% to bring them on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 par with general rate on auto parts.\par
\b MSME Products\b0\par
186. We are proposing certain changes to benefit MSMEs. We are\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 increasing duty from 10% to 15% on steel screws and plastic builder wares.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 On prawn feed we increase it from 5% to 15%. We are rationalizing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 exemption on import of duty-free items as an incentive to exporters of garments, leather, and handicraft items. Almost all these items are made\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 domestically by our MSMEs. We are withdrawing exemption on imports of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 certain kind of leathers as they are domestically produced in good quantity\par
and quality, mostly by MSMEs. We are also raising customs duty on finished\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 synthetic gem stones to encourage their domestic processing.\par
\b Agriculture Products\b0\par
187. To benefit farmers, we are raising customs duty on cotton from nil\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to 10% and on raw silk and silk yarn from 10% to 15%. We are also\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 withdrawing end-use based concession on denatured ethyl alcohol.\par
Currently, rates are being uniformly calibrated to 15% on items like maize\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 bran, rice bran oil cake, and animal feed additives.\par
188. There is an immediate need to improve agricultural infrastructure\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 so that we produce more, while also conserving and processing agricultural\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 output efficiently. This will ensure enhanced remuneration for our farmers.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 To earmark resources for this purpose, I propose an Agriculture\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) on a small number of items.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 However, while applying this cess, we have taken care not to put additional\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 burden on consumers on most items.\par
\b Rationalization of Procedures and Easing of Compliance\b0\par
189. For their judicious application, we propose certain changes in the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 provisions relating to ADD and CVD levies. To complete Customs\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 investigations, we are prescribing definite timelines. In 2020, we rolled out\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the Turant Customs initiative, which brought in Faceless, Paperless, and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Contactless Customs measures. With effect from September 2020, we have\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 implemented a new procedure for administration of Rules of Origin. This\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 has helped in putting a check on misuse of FTAs.\par
190. The specific details of direct and indirect tax changes proposed are\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 listed in the Annexure to my speech.\par
191. Mr. Speaker Sir, with these words I commend the Budget to this\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 august House.\par
\par
\b Annex to Part A of Budget Speech\b0\par
ANNEXURE-I\par
Health and Wellbeing \endash  Expenditure\par
ANNEXURE-II\par
\b Flagship Projects: Roads and Highways\par
\b0 Major Expressways/Corridors\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Delhi-Mumbai Expressway: Remaining 260 km will be awarded\par
before 31.3.2021.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Bengaluru \f2\endash  Chennai Expressway: 278 km will be initiated in the\par
current financial year. Construction will begin in 2021-22\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor: 210 km corridor will be\par
initiated in the current financial year. Construction will begin in\par
2021-22\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Kanpur-Lucknow Expressway: 63 km expressway providing an\par
alternate route to NH 27 will be initiated in 2021-22.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Chennai \f2\endash  Salem corridor: 277 km expressway will be awarded\par
and construction would start in 2021-22.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Raipur-Vishakhapatnam: 464 km passing through Chhattisgarh,\par
Odisha and North Andhra Pradesh will be awarded in the current\par
year. Construction will start in 2021-22.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Amritsar-Jamnagar: Construction will commence in 2021-22\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Delhi \f2\endash Katra: Construction will commence in 2021-22\par
Advanced Traffic management system with speed radars, variable message\par
signboards, GPS enabled recovery vans will be installed in all new four and\par
six lane highways. \par
39\par
\b ANNEXURE-III\par
Highlights of Disinvestment/Strategic Disinvestment Policy\par
\b0 Objectives\par
a) Minimising presence of Central Government Public Sector Enterprises\par
including financial institutions and creating new investment space for\par
private sector\par
b) Post disinvestment, economic growth of Central Public Sector\par
Enterprises (CPSEs)/ financial institutions will be through infusion of\par
private capital, technology and best management practices. Will\par
contribute to economic growth and new jobs.\par
c) Disinvestment proceeds to finance various social sector and\par
developmental programmes of the government.\par
Policy features\par
a) Policy covers existing CPSEs, Public Sector Banks and Public Sector\par
Insurance Companies.\par
b) Various sectors will be classified as strategic and non-strategic\par
sectors.\par
c) The strategic sectors classified are:\par
i) Atomic energy, Space and Defence\par
ii) Transport and Telecommunications\par
iii) Power, Petroleum, Coal and other minerals\par
iv) Banking, Insurance and financial services\par
d) In strategic sectors, there will be bare minimum presence of the\par
public sector enterprises. The remaining CPSEs in the strategic\par
sector will be privatised or merged or subsidiarized with other\par
CPSEs or closed.\par
e) In non-strategic sectors, CPSEs will be privatised, otherwise shall be\par
closed. \par
40\par
\b ANNEXURE-IV\par
\b0 MSP Purchases of Agricultural Commodities\par
\b ANNEXURE-V\par
Initiatives on Education as part of NEP\par
\b0\f1\'b7\f0  Standards will be developed for all school teachers in the form of National Professional Standards for Teachers- NPST. This will enhance the capabilities of teachers and will be followed by all 92 lakh teachers of public and private school system in the country.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Toys are both an expression of entertainment and learning. A unique indigenous toy-based learning \f2\endash  pedagogy for all levels of school\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 education will be developed. This will transform classroom\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 transactions from mundane and rote learning to an engaging and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 joyful experience.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  A National Digital Educational Architecture (NDEAR) will be set up within the context of a Digital First Mindset where the Digital Architecture will not only support teaching and learning activities but also educational planning, governance and administrative activities of the Centre and the States/ Union Territories. It will provide a diverse education eco-system architecture for development of digital \par
infrastructure, a federated but inter operable system that will ensure autonomy of all stakeholders, specially States and UTs.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  For children with hearing impairments, the Government will work on standardization of Indian Sign language across the country, and develop National and State Curriculum materials for use by them.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  There are a number of senior and retired teachers. They will be used for individual mentoring of school teachers and educators through constant online/offline support on subjects, themes and pedagogy.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Students have so far been evaluated on uni-dimensional parameters. There will be a complete shift from using assessments to not only judge the cognitive levels of the learner but also using it as an\par
opportunity to identify the unique strengths and the potential of the child. To this effect, a holistic progress card is envisaged to provide students with valuable information on their strengths, areas of\par
interest, needed areas of focus and thereby helping them in making optimal career choices.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  To enable increased access of resources, online modules covering the entire gamut of adult education will be introduced.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  During the year, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, we have trained more than 30 lakh elementary school teachers digitally, covering the whole gamut of education. Taking this further, in 2021-22, we will enable the training of 56 lakh school teachers through the National Initiative for School Heads and Teachers for Holistic Advancement (NISTHA).\par
\f1\'b7\f0  For the past few years our Prime Minister has been engaging with students every year before their Board Exams to help them overcome anxiety and stress. In this direction, we will introduce CBSE Board\par
Exam reforms in a phased manner to be effective from the 2022-23 academic session. Exams will move away from rote-learning and students shall be tested on their conceptual clarity, analytical skills and\par
application of knowledge to real life situations.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  To promote enhanced academic collaboration with foreign higher educational institutions, it is proposed to put in place a regulatory mechanism to permit dual degrees, joint degrees, twinning\par
arrangements and other such mechanisms. \par
\b ANNEXURE VI\b0\par
Statement of Extra Budgetary Resources (EBRs) (Govt. fully serviced bonds, NSSF loan and other resources)\par
\f2 Part-B \endash  Financial support extended through loans from NSSF\par
Annex to Part B of Budget Speech\par
Direct Tax Proposals:\par
Proposals Proposed Amendments in brief\par
1. Relief to Senior Citizens \par
In order to ease compliance burden on senior\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 citizen pensioners who are of 75 years of age\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 or above, it is proposed to exempt them from\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the requirement of filing of income tax if the\par
full amount of tax payable has been deducted\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 by the paying bank. This exemption is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to be made available to such senior\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 citizens who have only interest income apart\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 from the pension income.\par
2. Reduction in Time Limits \par
In order to reduce compliance burden, the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 time-limit for re-opening of assessment is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 being reduced to 3 years from the current 6\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 years from the end of the relevant\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 assessment year. Re-opening up to 10 years\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 is proposed to be allowed only if there is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 evidence of undisclosed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 income of ` 50 lakh\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 or more for a year. Further, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 completely remove discretion in re-opening\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 and henceforth re-opening shall be made only\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 in cases flagged by system on the basis of data\par
analytics, objection of C&AG and in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 search/survey cases.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Further, in order to bring certainty in income\par
tax proceedings at the earliest, it is also\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to reduce the time limits for general\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 assessment or processing of income tax\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 return by three months and also for filing of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 returns.\par
3. Relief for Dividend \par
In order to provide relief to taxpayers,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 advance-tax liability on dividend income shall\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 arise only after the declaration/payment of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 dividend. The dividend paid to Real Estate\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Infrastructure Trusts or Infrastructure\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Investment Trusts (REIT/InvIT) shall be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 exempt from TDS. It is also proposed to clarify\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 that deduction of tax on incomes including\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 dividend income of Foreign Portfolio Investors\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 may be made at treaty rate. It is also\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to exempt dividend payment from\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 levy of Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 foreign company if the applicable tax rate is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 less than the rate of MAT.\par
4. Setting up of Dispute\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Resolution Committee\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 (DRC)\f0\lang2057  \par
\f2\lang1033 For reducing litigation and to give an impetus\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to the dispute resolution for small taxpayers,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 a Dispute Resolution Committee is proposed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to be constituted. A taxpayer having taxable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 income up to ` 50 lakh and disputed income\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 up to ` 10 lakh shall be eligible to approach\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the Committee. For ensuring efficiency,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 transparency and accountability, the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 procedure of the Committee will be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 conducted in a faceless manner.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Consequently, the Settlement Commission\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 shall be discontinued from 01.02.2021.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 However, the pending cases shall be decided\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 by an Interim Board if opted by the applicant.\par
5. Faceless Income Tax\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Appellate Tribunal (ITAT)\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033\par
In order to provide transparent tax appellate\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 mechanism, it is proposed to the make the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Income Tax \f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Appellate Tribunal faceless and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 jurisdiction-less. A National Faceless Incometax Appellate Tribunal Centre shall be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 established and all the communication\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 between the Tribunal and the appellant shall\par
be made electronically. Wherever personal\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 hearing is needed, it shall be done through \f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 video-conferencing.\par
6. Tax Neutrality of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 conversion of Urban\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Cooperative Bank (UCB)\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 into a Small Finance Bank\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 (SFB)\par
In order to facilitate the transition of UCBs to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 SFBs, it is proposed to provide tax neutrality\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for the transition of UCBs to SFBs. Hence, the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 UCB shall not be required to pay capital gains\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for the assets transferred to the SFBs.\par
7. Tax incentives for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Affordable Housing and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Affordable Rental\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Housing Project\par
In order to incentivise purchase of affordable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 house, It is proposed to extend the eligibility\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 period for claim of additional deduction for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 interest of ` 1.5 lakh paid for loan taken for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 purchase of an affordable house to 31st March\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 2022.\par
In order to increase the supply of affordable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 house, it is proposed to extend eligibility\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 period for claiming tax holiday for affordable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 housing project by one more year to 31st\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 March, 2022.\par
In order to promote supply of Affordable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Rental Housing for the migrant workers, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 also proposed to allow a new tax exemption\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for the notified Affordable Rental Housing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Projects.\par
8. Tax benefit for Start-ups In order to incentivise setting-up of more\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 start-ups in the country, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 extend the eligibility period to claim tax\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 holiday for the start-ups by one more year to\par
31st March, 2022.\f0\lang2057  \par
\f2\lang1033 In order to incentivise investment in start-up,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 it is proposed to extend the eligibility period\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 of claiming capital gains exemption for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 investment made in the start-ups by one\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 more year to 31st Match, 2022.\par
9. Relaxation to NRI for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Income of Retirement\par
In order to remove the genuine hardship\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 faced by the NRIs in respect of their income\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 accrued on foreign retirement benefit account \f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Benefit Account due to mismatch in taxation, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 notify rules for aligning the taxation of income\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 arising on foreign retirement benefit account.\par
10. Exemption from Audit \par
To incentivise digital transactions and to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 reduce the compliance burden of the person\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 who is carrying almost all of their transactions\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 digitally, it is proposed to increase the limit\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for tax audit for persons who are undertaking\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 95% of their transactions digitally from\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 ` 5 crore to ` 10 crore.\par
11. Relaxation of Condition\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for carry forward of loss\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for Disinvestment\par
In order to promote strategic disinvestment of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 PSU, it is proposed to relax the condition\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 regarding carry forward of loss for disinvested\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 PSU in amalgamation.\par
12. Relaxation of Condition\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for tax neutral Demerger\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for disinvestment\par
In order to promote strategic disinvestment, it\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 is proposed to deem the transfer of assets by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the PSU to the resulting company as tax\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 neutral demerger.\par
13. Zero Coupon Bonds by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Infrastructure Debt Fund\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 (IDF)\par
In order to allow funding of infrastructure, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to make Zero Coupon Bonds issued\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 by notified IDF eligible for tax benefit.\par
14. Rationalisation of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 taxation of Unit Linked\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Insurance Plan (ULIP)\par
In order to rationalise taxation of ULIP, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to allow tax exemption for maturity\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proceed of the ULIP having annual premium\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 up to ` 2.5 lakh. However, the amount\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 received on death shall continue to remain\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 exempt without any limit on the annual\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 premium. The cap of ` 2.5 lakh on the annual\par
premium of ULIP shall be applicable only for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the policies taken on or after 01.02.2021.\par
Further, in order to provide parity, the nonexempt ULIP shall be provided same\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 concessional capital gains taxation regime as\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 available to the mutual fund.\par
15. Rationalisation of Taxfree Income on Provident\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Funds\par
In order to rationalise tax exemption for the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 income earned by high income employees, it\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 is proposed to restrict tax exemption for the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 interest income earned on the employees\rquote\lang2057  \lang1033 contribution to various provident funds to the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 annual contribution of ` 2.5 lakh. This\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 restriction shall be applicable only for the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 contribution made on or after 01.04.2021.\par
16. Taxability of Surplus\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 amount received by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 partners\par
In order to provide certainty, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 rationalise the provisions relating to taxation\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 of the assets or amount received by partners\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 from the partnership firm in excess of their\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 capital contribution.\par
17. Clarification on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Depreciation on Goodwill\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 In order to provide certainty, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 clarify that no depreciation on Goodwill shall\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 be allowed. However, the deduction for the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 amount paid for acquiring Goodwill shall be\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 allowed on sale of Goodwill.\par
18. Clarification for the Slump\par
Sale\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 In order to provide certainty, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 clarify that slump sale shall include all types of\par
transfer.\par
19. Fake Invoice/sham\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 transaction\par
In order to protect the revenue, it is proposed\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to provide that the penalty proceedings\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 initiated for fake invoice/sham transactions of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 more than ` 2 crore shall also be eligible for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 provisional attachment of assets.\par
20. Exemption for Small\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Trusts\par
In order to reduce compliance burden on the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 small charitable trusts running educational\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 institutions and hospitals, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 increase the limit on annual receipts for these\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 trusts from present ` 1 crore to ` 5 crore for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 non-applicability of various compliances like\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 approval etc.\par
21 Carry Forward of loss by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Charitable Organisations\par
In order to provide certainty, it is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 clarify that charitable trusts shall not be 50\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 permitted to claim carry forward of loss.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 However, the loan repayment and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 replenishment of corpus shall be allowed as\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 application.\par
22. Clarification for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Equalisation Levy\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 In order to provide certainty, it is being\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 expressly clarified that transaction taxable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 under income-tax are not liable for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 equalisation levy. Further, it is also proposed\par
to clarify regarding applicability of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 equalisation levy on physical/offline supply of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 goods and services.\par
23 Timely deposit of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Employees\rquote  contribution\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to labour welfare funds\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 by Due Date\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Delay in deposit of the contribution of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 employees towards various welfare funds by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 employers result in permanent loss of\par
interest/income for the employees. In order\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to ensure timely deposit of employees\rquote\lang2057  \lang1033 contribution to these funds by the employers,\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 it is proposed to reiterate that that the late\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 deposit of employees\rquote  contribution by the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 employer shall never be allowed as deduction\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 to the employer.\par
24 Relaxation in conditions\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for exemption to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Sovereign Wealth Fund &\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Pension Fund (SWF/PF)\par
In order to incentivise more number of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 SWF/PF to invest in Indian Infrastructure, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to relax some of conditions for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 availing 100% tax exemption introduced in the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 last budget. The conditions which are\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to be relaxed include prohibition on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 loans or borrowings, restriction on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 commercial activities, direct investment in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 entity owning infrastructure, etc.\par
25. Tax incentives for IFSC In order to promote IFSC, It is proposed to\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 provide more tax incentives which includes\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 tax holiday for capital gains incomes of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 aircraft leasing company, tax exemptions for\par
aircraft lease rental paid to foreign lessor, tax\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 incentive for re-location of foreign funds in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 IFSC and tax exemptions to investment \f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 division of the foreign banks located in IFSC.\f0\lang2057  \par
\f2\lang1033 26 Non-filing of Return by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Deductee/Collectee\f0\lang2057  \par
\f2\lang1033 In order to discourage the practice of not\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 filing returns by the persons in whose case\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 substantial amount of tax has been\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 deducted/collected, it is proposed to provide\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 that a person in whose case TDS/TCS of\par
`50,000 or more has been made for the past\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 two years and who has not filed return of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 income, the rate of TDS/TCS shall be at the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 double of the specified rate or 5%, whichever\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 is higher. This provision shall not be applicable\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for the transactions where full amount of tax\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 is required to be deducted e.g. salary income,\par
payment to non-resident, lottery, etc.\par
27 Levy of TDS on Purchase\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 of Goods\par
In order to widen the scope of TDS, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to levy a TDS of 0.1% on a purchase\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 transaction exceeding ` 50 lakh in a year. In\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 order to reduce the compliance burden, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 also proposed to provide that the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 responsibility of deduction shall lie only on\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 the persons whose turnover exceeds ` 10\par
crore.\par
28 Substitution of Authority\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 for Advance Rulings with\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Board for Advance\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Rulings\par
To ensure faster disposal of cases, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to replace the Authority for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Advance Rulings with a Board for Advance\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Rulings. It is also proposed to provide appeal\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 against the order of such Board to the High\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Court.\par
29. Alignment of Minimum\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Alternate Tax (MAT) for\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Advanced Pricing\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Agreement (APA) and\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 secondary adjustment\par
In order to provide relief to the taxpayers in\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 whose case MAT liability has arisen in the year\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 of repatriation on account APA or secondary\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 adjustment, it is proposed to provide relief by\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 aligning the MAT provisions with the year of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 taxability of such income.\par
30. Exemption for Leave\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 Travel Concession (LTC)\par
In order to provide relief to employees, it is\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 proposed to provide tax exemption to the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 amount given to an employee in lieu of LTC \f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 cash scheme subject to incurring of specified expenditure.\par
31 Increase in safe harbor\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 limit for primary sale of\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 residential units.\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 In order to incentivise home buyers and real\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 estate developers, it is proposed to increase\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 safe harbour limit from 10% to 20% for the\f0\lang2057  \f2\lang1033 specified primary sale of residential units.\par
32 Miscellaneous \par
\f1\'b7\f0  It is proposed to make consequential amendment in the provisions relating to processing of returns for allowing certain deductions and to provide clarification for adjustment of income reported in Audit\par
Report.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  It is also proposed to enable issuance of notice for calling for returns by the prescribed authority.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  It is proposed to empower the Board to relax the rule relating to defective return for a class of taxpayers and to align due dates of return for certain taxpayers,\par
\f1\'b7\f0  It is proposed to clarify that Limited Liability Partnership shall not be eligible for presumptive tax for professionals.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  It is proposed to define the term \f2\ldblquote\f0 liable to tax\f2\rdblquote  \f0 to provide certainty.\par
\par
\b ANNEXURE TO THE BUDGET SPEECH\par
\b0 A. LEGISLATIVE CHANGES IN CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE:\par
\b 1. Major Amendments in the Customs Act, 1962:\par
A. Reduce dwell time and EoDB (Trade facilitation)\par
1.\b0  It is proposed to mandate filing of bills of entry before the end of day preceding the day of arrival of goods (Section 46).\par
\b 2.\b0  It is proposed to allow the specified amendments by importer/exporter on self-amendment basis. Hitherto all amendments were to be approved by the officer. (Section 149).\par
\b 3.\b0  To encourage paperless processing, it is proposed to recognize the use of common portal to serve notice, order etc and the portal to act as a one-point digital interface for the trade to interact with the Customs.\par
\b B. Efficiency and accountability\par
1\b0  It is proposed to add a new provision in law to prescribe that all conditional exemptions, unless otherwise specified or varied or rescinded, given under Customs Act shall come to an end on 31st March\par
falling immediately two years after the date of such grant or variation. (Section 25 of the Customs Act).\par
\b 2.\b0  It is proposed to introduce a new section 28BB to prescribe a definite time-period of two years subject to certain exceptions, for completion of investigations.\par
\b C. Improving tax compliance\par
1.\b0  A new provision is being proposed that any goods entered for exportation making wrongful claim of remission or refund shall be liable to confiscation [sub-section (ja) is being added to section 113 of the\par
Customs Act].\par
\b 2.\b0  A new provision is being inserted in the Customs Act (section 114AC) to prescribe penalty in specific case where any person claims refund of tax or duty discharge, using fraudulent invoices, on exports of goods.\par
\b D. Disposal of seized gold\par
\b0 1. Section 110 of the Customs Act is proposed to be amended to revise the procedure for pre-trial disposal of seized gold for expediting such disposals\par
\b 2. Amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975:\b0\par
\b A Amendment in First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975\b0\par
\b 1.\b0 The first schedule to the Customs Tariff Act is being proposed to be amended in accordance with HSN 2022 amendments. These changes shall come into effect from 01.01.2022. Besides certain new tariff lines are being created\par
\b B Amendment in the provisions relating to Anti-Dumping Duty (ADD), Countervailing Duty (CVD), and Safeguard Measures\b0\par
\b 1.\b0  It is being proposed to make the following amendments in the provision relating to ADD, CVD [ section 9, 9A of the Customs Tariff Act and respective Rules] to provide for:\par
(i) imposition of duty from the date of initiation of anticircumvention investigation;\par
(ii) anti-absorption provisions;\par
(iii) imposition of these duties on review for period upto 5 years at a time;\par
(iv) uniform provisions for imposition ADD/CVD on account of inputs (attracting ADD or CVD) used by EoUs and SEZs for manufacture of goods that are cleared to Domestic Tariff Area;\par
(v) whenever any particular ADD or CVD is temporarily revoked, such temporary revocation shall not exceed one year at a time;\par
(vi) final findings are to be issued in ADD/CVD, in investigation in review proceedings, by the designated authority, at least three months prior to expiry of the ADD under review (with effect from the 1st Jul,\par
2021);\par
Amendment at S. No. (vi) is being made in respective Rules and rest of the other changes are being made in the Customs Tariff Act.\par
\b 2. \b0 The Safeguard Rules are being amended to provide for the manner and procedure for causing  investigation into the cases of imports in increased quantity that cause injury to domestic industry for imposition of Safeguard TRQs.\par
\b 3. Amendments to the Central Excise Act, 1944:\par
\b0 1. \f1\'b7\f0  Addition of new tariff lines consequent to review of Harmonised System of Nomenclature (HSN) by World Customs Organisation.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  A few minor changes in the schedule of clarificatory nature are being made.\b\par
4. Amendments in Customs Rules:\par
\b0 The Customs (Import of Goods at Concessional Rate of Duty) Rules, 2017 [IGCR] are being made so as a trade facilitation measure to allow:\par
\f1\'b7\f0  job-work on the materials (except precious metals) imported under IGCR\par
\f1\'b7\f0  clearance of imported capital goods imported under IGCR on payment of customs duty on the depreciated value.\par
\b B. Customs duty rate changes\par
1. Changes in basic customs duty for creating level playing field for the benefit of farmer, MSME and other domestic manufacturers [with effect from 02.02.2021]:\par
2. Changes in Customs duty to promote value addition in the Electronics Sector [with effect from 2.2.2021, unless specified otherwise].\par
3. Changes in Customs duty raw materials and inputs used by Domestic Manufacturers for reducing cost of inputs and correction of inverted duty structure:\par
4.\b0  BCD rates has been reduced on following items with imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess on these so that overall consumer does not bear additional burden on most of the items. The revised rate of basic customs duty on such items shall be as follows:\par
\b 5.\b0  Consequent to imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) on petrol and diesel, the Basic excise duty (BED) and Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED) rates have been reduced on them so that overall consumer does not bear any additional burden. Consequently, unbranded petrol and diesel will attract basic excise duty of Rs 1.4, and Rs 1.8 per litre respectively. The SAED on unbranded petrol and diesel shall be Rs 11 and Rs 8 per litre respectively. Similar changes have also been made for branded petrol and diesel. Refer to part C for Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess rates on these items\par
\b 6. Rationalization of exemptions\par
7. Revocation / Temporary Revocation / Discontinuance of Anti-Dumping Duty and Countervailing Duty\par
\b0 1. Anti-Dumping duty is being temporarily revoked for the period commencing from 2.2.2021 till 30.09.2021, on imports of the following-\par
(a) Straight Length Bars and Rods of alloy-steel, originating in or exported from People\f2\rquote\f0 s Republic of China, imposed vide notification No. 54/2018-Cus (ADD) dated 18.10.2018;\par
(b) High Speed Steel of Non-Cobalt Grade, originating in or exported from Brazil, People\f2\rquote\f0 s Republic of China and Germany, imposed vide notification No. 38/2019-Cus (ADD) dated 25.09.2019;\par
(c) Flat rolled product of steel, plated or coated with alloy of Aluminium or Zinc, originating in or exported from People\f2\rquote\f0 s Republic of China, Vietnam and Korea RP, imposed vide notification No. 16/2020-Cus (ADD) dated 23.06.2020.\par
2. Countervailing duty is being temporarily revoked for the period commencing from 2.2.2021 till 30.09.2021, on imports of Certain Hot Rolled and Cold Rolled Stainless Steel Flat Products, originating in or exported from People\f2\rquote\f0 s Republic of China, imposed vide notification No. 1/2017-Cus (CVD) dated 7.09.2017.\par
3. Provisional Countervailing duty is being revoked on imports Flat Products of Stainless Steel, originating in or exported from Indonesia, imposed vide notification No. 2/2020-Customs (CVD) dated 9.10.2020.\par
4. In Sunset Review, anti-dumping duty on Cold-Rolled Flat Products of Stainless Steel of width 600 mm to 1250 mm and above 1250 mm of non bonafide usage originating in or exported from People\f2\rquote\f0 s Republic\par
of China, Korea RP, European Union, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and United States of America has been discontinued upon expiry of the anti-dumping duty hitherto leviable vide notifications no. 61/2015-\par
Customs (ADD) dated 11th December, 2015 and 52/2017-Customs (ADD) dated 24th October, 2017.\par
\b 8. Other miscellaneous changes\par
i.\b0  Miscellaneous\par
Exemption to temporary imports of costumes and props by film-makers.\par
Exemption to all items of machinery, instruments, appliances, components or auxiliary equipment for\par
setting up of solar power generation projects is being rescinded [ Notif No. 1/2011-Cus]\par
\b ii.\b0  Project Imports\par
Benefit is being extended to All High-Speed Railway projects\par
\b iii.\b0  IT/Electronics\par
Concessional rate of BCD on ink cartridges, ribbon assembly, ribbon gear assembly, ribbon gear carriage, for use in printers for computers is being withdrawn.\par
\b iv.\b0  Toys\par
Existing entries in exemption notification which provide concessional BCD rate on various parts of\par
electronic toys, is being consolidated in a single entry and a revised BCD rate of 15% is being prescribed for the said new entry.\par
\b v.\b0  End use-based exemptions to be have condition of IGCR in lieu of existing miscellaneous conditions.\par
A number of cumbersome conditions in customs exemptions are now being replaced by the requirement of observance of Import of Goods at Concessional rate (IGCR). This will simplify and standardized the compliance requirement for end use-based exemptions.\par
\b C. Imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess on specified goods [w.e.f. 2.2.2021]\par
\b0 An Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess has been proposed on specified goods, as below:\par
\b (A) On customs side\par
\b0 For basic customs duty rates on these items refer to part B. Overall there would be no additional burden on the consumer on most of these items.\par
\b (B) On excise side:\b0\par
An agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) of ` 2.5 per litre has been imposed on petrol and ` 4 per litre on diesel. For other duties and cess, as revised, consequent to imposition of AIDC) on these items refer to part B. Overall there would be no additional burden on the consumer.\par
\b E. Social Welfare Surcharge (SWS)\par
a.\b0  Notification No. 12/2018-Customs dated 2.2.2018 is being rescinded to keep only one SWS rate of 10% for all goods.\par
\b b.\b0  The SWS on Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess is being exempted for Gold and Silver.\par
\b F. Miscellaneous changes in Central Excise:\par
\b0 Blended Fuel: M-15 Petrol and E-20 Petrol\par
Exemptions from cesses and surcharges on the lines of other blended fuels (like E-5 and E-10) if these blended fuels are made of duty paid inputs\par
\b G. Legis. Changes in the provisions of Central GST Act, 2017 (CGST Act) and Integrated GST Act, 2017 (IGST Act):\b0\par
Certain changes have been in the CGST Act and the IGST Act on the basis of recommendations made by the GST Council. These changes will come into effect from the date when the same will be notified, as far as possible, concurrently with the corresponding amendments to the similar Acts passed by the States & Union territories with legislature. These includes measures for\par
\b (i) \b0 facilitating taxpayers, such as remove the mandatory requirement of getting annual accounts audited and reconciliation statement, filing of the annual return on self-certification basis and charging interest on net cash liability with effect from the 1st July, 2017.\par
\b (ii)\b0  improving compliance, such as availment of input tax credit only when the details have been furnished by the supplier in the statement of outward supplies, validity of provisional attachment for a period, zero-rating on payment of IGST only in specified cases and linking it to the receipt of foreign remittances\par
\b (iii)\b0  making certain other changes relating to seizure and confiscation, filing of appeal only on payment of a sum equal to twenty-five per cent. of penalty imposed\par
\b H. There are few other changes of minor nature. For details of the budget proposals, the Explanatory memorandum and other relevant budget documents may be referred to.\lang9\par
}
 